 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

 

SECRET

For example, in the US, a supplier may be debarred if it engages in conduct prohibited under federal
statutes such as the Buy American Act, Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act. In addition, the US has
issued a series of presidential executive orders that augment ethical procurement standards. This

_ includes, but is not limited to:

e Requiring federal contractors who supply items included on a list of products, by country of origin,
which may have been made by forced or indentured child labour to certify that they have made a
good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labour was used to produce the

items.

Imposing a variety of prohibitions on suppliers and subcontractors who engage in activities which
usually constitute or may lead to some form of trafficking (commercial sex, forced labour, fraud,

worst forms of child labour).

In the UK, a longstanding discussion on the use of forced labour in supply chains has led to the adoption
of the Modern Slavery Act which requires companies with a global turnover of £36m or more to disclose
actions undertaken to eliminate modern slavery in their own business or end-to-end supply chains.
There is growing pressure for the UK to require all suppliers to the government to include a similar

disclosure when bidding on a public procurement.

The Government of Canada could consider adding to the Integrity Regime offences related social issues
such as forced labour and labour rights violations, human trafficking and environmental infractions.

 

What do you think?

Q9: Should application of the Integrity Regime be broadened to include federal entities beyond
departments and agencies? What factors should be considered when determining what other"

organizations should be required to adopt the Integrity Regime’?

Q10: How could the Government of Canada use the Integrity Regime to achieve other social,
economic or environmental policy objectives? .

 

 

 

 

PER 5 SERA ATER SEF ARE IS LE Ee TEI

Public Services and Procurement Canada , paae 13
ot 000017
