Divulgué en Vertu de la LAI
Released under theATIA °

STOTT, PE ee ee ee ET SE ee Se ep tere

 

 

 

SECRET «.

 

What do you think?

| Q3: ‘Are there other offences that call into question the integrity of a supplier that should be
considered for inclusion within the /neligibility and Suspension Policy? \f so, what are they?

 

Q4: What factors should be considered in determining whether new offences should be included?

 

 

Taking action prior fo, or in the absence of a conviction

The.reliance on charges and convictions to trigger a determination of suspension or ineligibility
potentially limits the Government of Canada’s ability to take action to protect the integrity of its contracts
and real property agreements prior to’a formal conviction, where the risks are potentially higher.

The risks to the Government are potentially greater in doing business with a supplier that is under
investigation or the subject of allegations regarding business ethics, than following a conviction many
years later. By that time, a supplier could have taken remedial actions to address the issues around the
allegations of wrongdoing.

Regimes in other jurisdictions allow for debarment in the absence of formal charges or convictions. For
example, in the US a supplier may be suspended from federal procurement on the basis of adequate
evidence, temporarily pending the completion of an investigation, when it has been determined that
immediate action is necessary to protect the government's interest.’ This enables US officials to take
‘action to mitigate risks and protect the integrity of its contracts when problems first arise.

What do you think?

 

Q5: At what point should the Government of Canada consider actions regarding corporate
wrongdoing when making a determination of suspension or ineligibility? What wrongdoing or
action would warrant a federal response?

 

 

Application to non-procurement Government of Canada services

Decisions under the /neligibility and Suspension Policy could also affect a company’s eligibility for
certain Government of Canada services outside of procurement. For example, Global Affairs Canada’s"
Trade Commissioner Service (TCS) provides market information, qualified contacts, advice and support
to eligible Canadian companies in their business endeavours abroad. The TCS has its own eligibility
criteria and a standard operating procedure to determine whether a company may receive its services.

A suspension or declaration of ineligibility under the /neligibility and Suspension Policy may render the
company ineligible for business development support from trade commissioners or other Canadian
officials abroad. Other triggers for ineligibility for TCS support include a criminal conviction for bribery or
corruption and debarment by an international financial institution such as the World Bank.

 

7 Federal Acquisition Regulation. Section 9.407 https://www.acquisition.gov/?q=browsefar .

Sa oa ESE rae waat poror TI SMe et re Cee nore meth ee St RES

Public Services and Procurement Canada : page 10
i 000014

 
