 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA ,

figete wn teem Os So Sh eae ei sot en eine ETERS CST ISTE SL ec ee Soe gan od een iociare ip ey ane ea

 

 

 

SECRET ' «

. operate.'° Public procurement is also susceptible to the infiltration of organized crime and its negative
consequences.

Under the Integrity Regime, a supplier may be determined to be suspended or ineligible for a charge or
conviction under sections 467.11 to 467.13 of the Criminal Code (i.e., recruitment of members by a
criminal organization; commission of offence for criminal organization; instructing commission of offence
for criminal organization). As there are known linkages between illicit drugs and organized crime, a
supplier may also be suspended or ineligible if charged with, or convicted of an offence under sections
5-7 of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (trafficking in substance; importing and exporting; and
production of a substance).

Some have suggested that relying on charges or convictions under these sections of the Criminal Code
doés not to go far enough to protect the Government of Canada from doing business with suppliers who
are affiliated with organized crime. .

 

What do you think?

Q8: What type of measures should be taken to preclude those with known membership in or
associations with organized crime from being awarded a federal contract or real property
agreement?

 

 

 

4. Expanding the scope of application ©

There is an opportunity to look beyond the current scope of the Integrity Regime with respect to how it
applies to contracts and real property agreements awarded by organizations.affiliated with the .
Government of Canada, and. if it can be used to achieve other policy objectives of interest to Canadians.

- Application to Other Federal Organizations

At this time, the Integrity Regime applies to all federal departments and agencies identified under
Schedules |, 1.1 and Il of the Financial Administration Act. Other federal entities, such as Crown
Corporations, are encouraged to opt-in to the Integrity Regime.

Broader adoption of the Integrity Regime to other federal organizations’ procurement and real property .
transactions would provide greater assurances that the Government of Canada is not conducting

business with unethical suppliers.

Using the Integrity Regime to achieve other purposes

It has been suggested that the Government of Canada use its purchasing to positively and uniformly
influence corporate behaviour. Increasingly, international bodies and national/sub-national governments
are incorporating provisions to ensure respect for human.and labour rights protection i in procurement
decisions and policy.

 

49 Criminal Intelligence Service Canada — Organized Crime in Canada: Backgrounder. http://www.cisc.gc.ca/media/2014/2014-08-22-eng.htm

 

a TS Ve er maaees

Public Services and Procurement Canada . : page 12
‘ 000016
