 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAl
Released under the ATIA *

ssa neeleghine: ociecenep nce ano ee

 

 

 

 

SECRET! *

Possible enhancements ;
After five years of experience administering a debarment regime, and based on feedback received and
best practices from other jurisdictions, the following area series of possible enhancements to.the
Integrity Regime for consideration. Each concept includes a short description of what the. enhancement
could look like in practice, followed by questions for input.

1. Time periods associated with ineligibility and suspension

Concerns have been raised regarding the time periods associated with suspension and ineligibility. For
example, the ten-year period of ineligibility has been criticized as being punitive, disproportional, and not
aligned with international best practices. Questions remain as to whether these time periods should be’
reduced, or if they should be made discretionary and based on the nature and context of the offence.

Under the current Regime, discretion within the determination process is limited, as much of the Policy is
rules-based. For example, if a supplier is convicted of one of the listed offences in Canada or of a similar

_ offence abroad within the last three years, the supplier will automatically be ineligible to be awarded a
federal contract or real property agreement for a period of ten years. There is some discretion when
dealing with a conviction of an affiliate in that the supplier may be determined to be ineligible; however,
only if they directed, influenced, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission
of the offence of the affiliate.

There is also discretion to reduce a supplier's period of ineligibility by up to five years 5 if it can
demonstrate that they have cooperated with Jaw enforcement or have taken steps to address the causes

of the conduct that led to their ineligibility.

The periods of ineligibility are fixed (i.e., ten years) regardless of the offence that triggered the
determination or the circumstances associated with the situation.

Other jurisdictions have greater levels of discretion built into their debarment regimes. In the US, the
debarring official at the federal agency level, when making a decision to debar a supplier or affiliate,
applies discretionary measures on a case-by-case approach with supportive evidence. In addition to
assessing the business risk to the US government, the debarring official assesses whether the supplier
is “presently responsible”, meaning whether the supplier's management recognizes and understands the -
seriousness of the misconduct giving rise to the cause for debarment, and whether the supplier has
implemented programs to prevent a recurrence.®

 

What do you think?

Q1: To-what extent, if any, should the duration of ineligibility and/or suspension be modified to ensure
appropriateness while continuing to mitigate risk?

Q2: How’could the exercise of greater discretion be built into the Integrity Regime to address issues
associated with periods of ineligibility? What factors should be considered in determining whether
a supplier should benefit from discretion?

 

 

 

 

© The World Bank. Combating Corruption. htto://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/governance/brief/anti-corruption

: ¢ .
eer oruanse teareesan ont att aR eS eT LT ERAEATOEIET 2 NS EEE ROR FEY TE

 

“page 8
000012

Public Services and Procurement Canada
