 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

 

SECRET

As part of its standard operating procedure, the TCS requires companies to sign an Integrity Declaration
before receiving any advocacy support. The TCS aims to bring economic benefit to Canada by
supporting Canadian companies that do business responsibly and ethically, while showcasing Canada

as a positive example in responsible business practices.

 

What do you think?

Q6: How aligned should Integrity Regime determinations of ineligibility and decisions made by Global
Affairs Canada’s Trade Commissioner Service be? Should a similar approach be applied to other

federal services?

 

 

 

" Other jurisdictions’ debarment decisions

The Government of Canada could consider using debarment decisions made in other jurisdictions (i.e.,
Canadian provinces and territories with debarment regimes, the US, the UK, the World Bank, etc.) to
assess whether or not it is in the government's best interest to do business with a debarred supplier. ,
This could be particularly useful in the Canadian context to avoid inconsistencies resulting from the
Government of Canada continuing to contract with a supplier debarred by a province or territory.

This practice, also known as cross debarment, is in place. among five multilateral development banks
(Asian Development Bank Group, African Development Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, Inter-American Development Bank Group and the World Bank Group). Effectively, a
supplier debarred by one development bank is ineligible to contract with all of them.®

The World Bank suggests that cross debarment multiplies the deterrence factor of a single sanction and
allows participating institutions to make the most of limited investigative resources. The increased
transparency and uniformity of the sanctions process also helps suppliers have a better understanding

of what is expected of them.®

 

What do you think?

Q7: . What impact should a debarment decision made in another jurisdiction or by another organization
have on a supplier's status under the Integrity Regime?

 

 

 

3. Addressing Organized Crime

Organized crime poses a significant threat to public safety and negatively impacts the daily lives of
Canadians. Tied to illegal activities such as drug trafficking, prostitution, theft and human trafficking,
organized crime groups have a violent and corrupting effect on the communities and cities where they

 

8 World Bank Group. Cross Debarment. http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTDOI/Resources/Cross_Debarment_Brief.pdf

° World Bank Group. Cross Debarment. http://siteresources. worldbank.org/INTDOIN/Resources/Cross Debarment_Brief.pdf

 

 

 

page 11.
000015

se ay. ERAS HN,

Public Services and Procurement Canada —
