Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

SECRET

e sending ‘tweeis’ through departmental accounts (e.g. PSPC, DoJ, Buy&Sell.gc.ca,
Office of Small and Medium Enterprises (OSME) regional offices, Associate Deputy
Minister and Assistant Deputy Minister accounts).

Targeted messaging would be conducted by:
_ ® sending emails to existing departmental networks and committees;
o Inparticular, PSPC’s Office of Small and Medium Sized entreprises’ networks will

be used to reach SMEs and minorities, such as women and young
entrepreneurs, indigenous businesses, etc.);
« sending emails to stakeholders that have provided feedback on the Integrity Regime or

DPAs in the past (e.g. Transparency International)

e leveraging existing committees and working groups by sending an email to groups; and
raising the topic during meetings scheduled during this period (e.g. the Supplier
Advisory Committee, Federal, Provincial and Territorial Committees, etc.).

By using a combination of these communication methods, the federal government is actively
‘seeking and encouraging participation from the full range of stakeholder T groups. ‘These
methods will be used in each communication blitz.

b. Opening announcement

A news release would launch the consultations. Upon the launch of the consultations,
communication mechanisms identified for the pre-launch announcement will be repeated.

c. Pre-closing message (if needed)

If uptake is low, two weeks prior to the close of the online consultations, a third notification will
be sent out to as a reminder that the consultation period will be closing shortly and to

encourage stakeholder participation.
d. Closing message

Once the online consultation is closed, a thank you message will be placed on the
Consultation with Canadians website accompanied by next steps in the process (i.e. a
summary of results will be posted online).

3.3 Reporting
(

Two executive summaries will be written, one compiling findings from Integrity Regime
consultations and another from DPA consultations. Key themes from the various events and
online consultations will be grouped together to report on topics and overall findings. These
summaries will be posted on the Consulting with Canadians website, describing what was

_ heard.

000026
