S s.24(1)(b)

 

 

 

Provinces and Territories

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

SECRET

 

 

 

 

Heads of Prosecution and Coordinating Committee -
for Senior Officials criminal section — (PT)

 

 

 

 

 

Federal, Provincial, Territorial Deputy Heads of
Public Works

 

Beyond the consultation exercise, insights may be sought from others such as the World Bank,
the UK and US governments regarding lessons leamed and best practices.

‘The willingness of the GoC to broadly consult on possible modifications to the Integrity Regime
is likely to be well received by interested stakeholders, especially given their criticism of the
limited consultations during the development of the Integrity Regime in 2015. Consultations on
the possible introduction of DPAs in Canada may generate wide ranging reaction amongst

stakeholders.

PSPC, ISED and DoJ have a strong understanding of the position of industry associations and
suppliers regarding the Integrity Regime and DPAs due to regular engagement of these ,
stakeholders and/or continued expression of their views at the Ministerial and departmental
level. A broad range of internal and external stakeholder groups will be engaged through a
variety of consultation methods to gather on a discussion paper.

High interest stakeholders

Groups within this category include suppliers, industry associations and representatives
of the legal profession, which will generally be well informed and familiar with the

Integrity Regime and the notion of DPAs.
These stakeholders have vested interest in the Integrity Regime

and the introduction of DPAs in terms of the impact on industry and have.engaged with
the GoC in the past. Government officials can anticipate the general orientation of their

positions.

Medium interest stakeholders

Stakeholders within this group include those who have demonstrated some interest in
the Integrity Regime and DPAs, such as civil society organizations

and professional communities
(e.g. audit and law firms). oe
It is expected that they will have informed opinions of the Integrity Regime and DPAs
and may have expressed views through articles and publications.

000028
