 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
$.2
. 1(1)(b) . Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

%

DRAFT SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017
« To be defined ; vo
Targeted Groups
e - Indigenous Businesses ¥
*« Women entrepreneurs v
e Small and medium enterprises v
Justice Sector Stakeholders
e Provincial and/or Federal Court judges | v
‘ (TBD)
e Heads of Prosecution and Coordinating v
Committee for Senior Officials criminal
section — (PT)
e Criminal Lawyers’ Association 4
e vw
e v
Provinces and Territories
e Federal, Provincial and Territorial Deputy v.
Heads of Public Works

 

 

 

 

 

‘Beyond the consultation exércise, insights may be sought from others, such as the World
Bank, the UK and US governments, regarding lessons learned and best practices.

Environmental Scan

The willingness of the GoC to broadly consult on possible modifications to the Integrity
Regime is likely to be well received by interested stakeholders, especially given their
criticism of the limited consultations during the development of the Integrity Regime in
2015. Consultations on the possible introduction of DPAs in Canada may generate wide

ranging reaction amongst stakeholders.

PSPC, ISED and DoJ have a strong understanding of the position of industry associations |
and suppliers regarding the Integrity Regime and DPAs due to regular engagement of .
these stakeholders and/or continued expression of their views at the Ministerial and

departmental level.

Some stakeholders have also published reports on the subjects, providing
recommendations to the GoC. For instance, Transparency International Canada recently
published a report, Another Arrow i in the Quiver?: Consideration of a DPA scheme in ,

Canada.

A broad range of internal and external stakeholder groups will be engaged, primarily online
through the use of a discussion guide housed on the Consulting with Canadians website.
Officials will also make best efforts to meet with interested parties and, when rélevant,

— . 000038
