Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

SECRET

2. Criteria for ineligibility and suspension |

The ineligibility and Suspension Policy sets out criteria that trigger a determination of suspension or
ineligibility. These decisions are rendered on the basis of specific charges and convictions, all of which

are criminal in nature, relate to corporate wrongdoing, and are specified federal offences.

Currently, the Ineligibility and Suspension Policy includes offences under the following legislation:

Criminal Code
Competition Act
Controlled Drugs and Substance Act
Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act
Excise TaxAct .
Financial Administration Act
- Income Tax Act
Lobbying Act

The Regime does not take into account civil or provincial offences; other federal offences associated
with corporate wrongdoing; allegations or investigations; and debarment decisions made in other —
jurisdictions. The absence of these considerations could leave federal contracts and real property

agreements susceptible to increased risk.

Provincial and civil offences

A supplier that | is charged with or convicted of criminal conduct similar to the specified federal offences
contained in the /neligibility and Suspension Policy by either a province or other subnational body does
not face the same consequences under the Integrity Regime. For example, a supplier could be
convicted of tax fraud in a particular province, but remain eligible under the federal Integrity Regime.

Furthermore, in some cases, other jurisdictions may prosecute corporate wrongdoing civilly rather than
criminally. For example, in many European countries, wrongdoing associated with collusion and bid-
rigging are civil offences. In some countries, such as Germany and Sweden, corporations are not
subject to criminal prosecutions as they are not recognized as a natural person.

This represents a potential gap in the application of the Regime, treats suppliers inconsistently and as
such, may present a risk in the context of federal procurement and real property agreements. For
example, while a supplier may exhibit the same conduct or criminal behaviour, it may face different
consequences under the Regime depending on how the offence is treated in the Jurisdiction | in which the

’ wrongdoing is prosecuted.

. Additional offences associated with corporate wrongdoing

To further safeguard the integrity of its contracts and real property agreements, the Government of

Canada could also consider adding new federal offences to the /neligibility and Suspension Policy that
are linked to corporate wrongdoing. This could include other fraud related offences or those calling into

question the integrity of the supplier.

 

Se Ni ET SEN ST ARS EO

Public Services and Procurement Canada pace 9
. 000013

 
