 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

ee SECRET

.6 A supplier convicted of a listed offence in Canada or a similar offence abroad is ineligible for a period |
of ten years to enter into a contract or real property agreement with the government.

e Asupplier can apply to have their ineligibility period reduced by up to five years if they address the
causes of the conduct that led to ineligibility.

e Asupplier is not automatically penalized for the actions of an affiliate | in which they had no
involvement.

e A supplier may be suspended for a period of up to 18 months if it has been charged with a listed
offence or has admitted guilt. This period may be extended as judicial processes proceed.
Procedures incorporate consideration of due process.

Provides for the use of independent expert third-party assessments, and administrative agreements
that specify required corrective actions and ensure their effectiveness by monitoring compliance.

In April 2016, an updated version of the Jneligibility and Suspension Policy and integrity clauses were
released. While there were no changes to the Integrity Regime itself, the policy and clauses were -

simplified in response to feedback from client departments and agencies, as well as the supplier
community. The clauses now incorporate the policy by reference into solicitation documents and

resulting contracts and real property agreements.

In order to foster transparency and accountability, the ineligibility and suspension list is publicly available
on the Integrity Regime website and the Government does regularly report on the activities and .

achievements of the Integrity Regime.

Principles guiding Canada’s government-wide Integrity Regime

Through various efforts to protect the integrity of federal procurement and real property transactions, the
Government of Canada has been guided by the following five principles:

e Safeguard the expenditure of public funds within procurement and real property transactions;
' @ Conduct business in an open, fair, transparent, accountable and cost-efficient manner;
e Ensure rigour and due process without imposing undue administrative burden on suppliers or the
Government of Canada; _
e Promote ethical conduct by suppliers within the marketplace; and,
_« Ensure consistent government-wide application while preserving operational effi iclencies.

What we have heard to date

' Since the introduction of the Integrity Regime in 2015, the Government of Canada has engaged major
industry associations, professional organizations (i.e., law firms and accounting firms), suppliers, and
civil society groups to solicit feedback on implementation, and provide clarification on elements of the
Regime. Reaction has been generally positive, however some changes have been suggested to strike a
better balance between holding wrongdoers accountable for their actions, incenting early detection and
reporting when problems arise, and allowing some discretion to mitigate negative impacts on innocent
parties. This includes proposed changes to timelines and criteria associated with ineligibility and_
suspension; increased discretion; possible expansion of the scope of the Regime; and, the potential for

legislation.

 

aN 88

Public Services and Procurement Canada page 7

000011
