Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

~" DRAFT SECRET
- ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017
e - In anarticle on an ex-convict winning a contract to provide pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies to remote northern First Nations, NDP public procurement critic
Erin Weir was quoted as saying that “wouldn’t suggest a blanket ban on ex-convicts
being involved in government contracts” adding that “there’s room for improvement
and that government procurement has had a lot of problems.”

e Anarticle on the Panama Papers reported that. “Internationally, Canada has long
been considered lax on white collar crime, with few prosecutions and prison
sentences measured in months, not years.”

 

e There has been limited media coverage of DPAs in the period covered (10 articles);
mostly positive and much of it related to SNC-Lavalin Inc.

e An article in the Canadian Lawyer magazine summarizes the recent repori on the
potential fora DPA scheme in Canada by Transparency International Canada, as ~
well as briefly mentioning a 2015 paper by the Institute for Research on Public
Policy, suggesting that DPAs could be a more effective tool for the federal
government to deal with corporations caught up in wrongdoing.

Strategic considerations

Recent media coverage of federal initiatives to stop corporate wrongdoing has ranged
from neutral to positive. To maintain this type of coverage, key messages will have to be
tailored so that balance is kept between focusing on holding wrongdoers accountable for
their action through an enhanced Integrity Regime while allowing discretion to mitigate
negative impacts on innocent parties.

Communication Approach

A proactive communication approach, strongly relying on digital tools, such as email blast
targeted at stakeholders, will be implemented. This will be supported by departmental
efforts to provide personalized emails and/or calls to specific stakeholder organizations to
raise awareness and encourage participation in the consultations, PSPC will also develop
a social media calendar with Linkedin, Twitter and Facebook components that will cover
before and during the consultations, as well as reminders on the eve of its closing.

The Consulting with Canadians, the Integrity Regime, and Buy & Sell web pages will be
used to promote the consultation web page hosted on PSPC's site. Consideration will also

be given to a priority button on canada.gc.ca.

Conventional communication tools will also be used. For example, a news release will be
issued on the day of the launch. ,

000040
