Divulgue en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA °

 

SECRET

1. Intreduction a

Consultation i is a key public sector activity that facilitates the success of government initiatives.
It supports inclusiveness in the design and implementation of public policy and legislation and
increases public confidence in the legitimacy and. credibility of government.decision making.

- 4.4- Objectives (

The objectives of this Consultation Strategy are to ensure that consultations are ° well co-
ordinated, effectively managed and responsive to the diverse views and needs of the public
and its stakeholders. Offi cials from Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC), the
Department of Justice (Dou), and Innovation, Science and Economic Development (ISED) will
consult with various stakeholders to determine:

e the critical | changes that need to brought to the Integrity Regime;

e how best the Government of Canada: (GoC) can ensure it does. business with ethical
companies;.

e how the Integrity Regine can be used to support the Government's interest i in ensuring
procurement supports its broader policy objectives (e. Gs social and environmental);
and,

e the views on the possiblé introduction of Deferred Prosecution ‘Agreements (DPAs) i in

- Canada.as a tool. to. combating criminal business practices.

The consultation will provide stakeholders’ perpective to help shape the components of options
. to enhance the Integrity Regime and frame options for a possible Canadian DPA model.

1.2. Principles
The following three principles, have béen identified to underpin the consultation process:

Inclusiveness: . :
« Abroad range of groups and individuals who may be affected by, interestéd in, or. able
to make.a meaningful.contribution to the consultation will be encouraged to participate.
« Measures will be taken to ensure all participants have reasonable opportunity to have
their voices heard, while respecting the need for efficiency i in the use of time and
resources. ; (

Transparency a
e Asummary.of the viewpoints, perspectives and comments collected during the

consultations will be sharéd.- publicly.
e Summaries will be published online.

000021
