 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

DRAFT SECRET
ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

‘COMMUNICATIONS AND OUTREACH STRATEGY

Consultation for Enhancing Canada’s Toolkit to Address Corporate Wrongdoing

Issue

Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC) and the Department of Justice (DoJ),
with support from Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (ISED) and .
Global Affairs Canada (GAC), are launching a public consultation on enhancements to the
Integrity Regime and consideration regarding the possible adoption of a Deferred
Prosecution Agreement (DPA) regime to address corporate crime.

The consultation will provide stakeholders’ perspective to help shape and frame options |
for the Integrity Regime and a Canadian DPA model.

Background

Corporate wrongdoing imposes significant economic, political and social costs. These
-behaviours undermine fair competition, threaten the integrity of markets, are barriers to
economic growth, increase the cost and risk of doing business, and undermine public and

investor confidence.
\

Governments, including Canada’s, are taking action against unethical business practices
and holding companies accountable for such misconduct. This is achieved through a
series of laws, regulations, governance frameworks, policies, programs that seek to detect,
prevent and address such practices.

The Canadian government has implemented a number of measures that are designed to -
deter companies from participating in corporate misconduct. These include enacting and
amending legislation such as the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the
Competition Act and the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing
Act and amending the Criminal Code to address corporate criminal liability, as well as non-
legislative measures, such as the PSPC’s Code of Conduct for Procurement, Fairness
Monitoring Program, an Anti-Fraud Tip Line (joint initiative of the RCMP, Competition
Bureau and PSPC), and the Government-wide Integrity Regime.

It is important to continually assess whether the right tools are in place to address
corporate wrongdoing.

Moreover, after introducing a government-wide Integrity Regime over two years ago, the
‘regime that precludes suppliers from doing business with the GoC if charged with or
convicted of one of the listed offences, it is useful to review whether it is achieving its
objectives and whether it is efficient in doing so. This assessment is an opportunity to
’ consider how the Regime addresses new trends and risks in a constantly changing
marketplace as well as within the federal procurement modernization and social

procurement agenda.

000036
