 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
{Released under fhe A\ ATIA ‘

 

 

 

SECRET’ =

_ Summary of questions

We are interested in your views and welcome detailed responses regarding the questions set out in this
discussion paper — a summary of which can be found below.

 

Q1: "To what extent, if any, should the duration of ineligibility and/or suspension be modified to ensure
appropriateness while continuing to mitigate risk?

Q2: How could the exercise of greater discretion be built into the Integrity Regime to address issues
-associated with periods of ineligibility? What factors should be considered in determining whether
a supplier should benefit from discretion?

Q3: Are there other offences that call into question the integrity of a supplier that should be
considered for inclusion within the /neligibility and Suspension Policy? \f so, what are they?

Q4: What factors should be considered in determining whether new offences should be included?

Q5: At what point should the Government of Canada consider actions regarding corporate
wrongdoing when making a determination of suspension or ineligibility? What wrongdoing or
action would warrant a federal response?

Q6: How aligned should Integrity Regime determinations of ineligibility and decisions made by Global
Affairs Canada’s Trade Commissioner Service be? Should a similar approach be applied to other
federal services?

Q7: What impact should a debarment decision made in another jurisdiction or by another organization
have on a supplier's status under the Integrity Regime?

Q8: What type of measures should be taken to preclude those with known membership in or
associations with organized crime from being awarded a federal contract or real property

agreement?

Q9: Should application of the Integrity Regime be broadened to include federal eritities beyond
departments and agencies? What factors should be considered when determining what other
organizations should be required to adopt the Integrity Regime?

Q10: How could the Government of Canada use the Integrity Regime to achieve other social,
economic or environmental policy objectives?

 

 

 

 

TE AE AMEE SR ATLTD, LEA TEETER EIGN ER BT PSN REE * PRL RRSEANY NUIT SALI ES UI SALA

Public Services and Procurement Canada : page 14
000018
