 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATJA ~

 

 

 

SECRET

In 2001; the Consulting with Canadians web site was created to coordinate and list all national
and regional consultative activities across federal institutions, as well as to create a single
window for Canadians to access and participate in consultations. It serves as the
government's gateway for public access to information on consultations planned, underway or
recently completed by institutions.

Departments are to provide the following, the level of detail will vary from one department and
initiative to the next. _

a) Purpose and objectives of the consultation activity .
o Insome cases, interested participants are required to request more information on
the subject, or a copy of the relevant proposal or report.
o Includes information on the consultation period.

b) Targeted stakeholders groups

o Typically, a number of stakeholder groups are chosen to ensure. that interested or.
impacted stakeholders are provided the opportunity-to provide input.

o Stakeholders may include: representatives from federal provinces and territories,
municipalities, rural and remote communities, Indigenous communities, academia
and international counterparts, subject matter experts in a specialised field, industry,
communities of practice, and the general public.

c) Planned consultations that may be held, but are not limited to:
o Request for feedback/written submission on reports/proposals
= -Reports/proposals may be provided online, provided by link, or interested
stakeholders may be required to request a copy of the relevant document for
review
Comment forms
On-line surveys/questionnaires — includes open ended questions
Interviews/bilateral meetings
- Working groups/focus groups (by invitation only)
Series of focused workshops/conferences (by invitation)
Public town halls/open houses (in some cases, discussions were lead through broad
discussion topics related to the initiative). -
Twitter chats .
.o Live Facebook event
o Video conferencing

oo000 0

o

d) Next steps in the consultation process

e) Links to supplementary information

000023
