 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

SECRET

Good Faith
e Acommitment that these consultations will be meaningful and their results will be taken

into consideration within the decision making process.

2. Consultation Context

The GoC Plan on Open Government - Commitment 20 (part of the greater Open Government

- Partnership) states that Canada will “enable open dialogue and open policy making”. The GoC
will foster enhanced citizen participation through greater collaboration and co-creation with the
public and stakeholders within and across government initiatives.

According to the Policy on Communications and Federal Identity,1 the Government is expected

to:
« engage with Canadians and use innovative methods when developing policies,

- programs, services and initiatives; and
e interact with Canadians using new approaches such as digital technologies, while
balancing traditional methods to enable the GoC to reach and engage with Canadians

effectively and efficiently.

The Directive on the Management of Communication? requires Departmental Heads of

_ Communication to:
e use digital media and platforms as the primary means to connect and interact with the

public while continuing to use multiple communications channels to meet the diverse

information needs of the public;
« provide communications advice, support and guidance at all stages of consultations and

public engagement initiatives; and, -
e ensure that information about external consultations and public engagement initiatives
are posted on the Government of Canada’ sweb presénce (Consulting with Canadians

web site.

Treasury Board Secretariat (TBS) Guidelines for Effective Regulatory Consultations? provides
advice to departments and agencies and tools to support effective consultations throughout the

regulatory life cycle.
e Consultations are intended to promote the establishment of ongoing, constructive,

professional relationships with stakeholders.
e Consultation principles allow for meaningful experiences, openness and balance,

_transparency and accountability.

 

1 http:/Awww.tbs-set.qc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=30683
2 htto:/Awww.tbs-set.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=30682

- 3 https:/Awww.canada.ca/en/treasury- board-secretariat/services/federal- requiatory-management/guidelines-
tools/effective-requlatory-consultations. htral

000022
