Divulgué en vertu de la LAI

Released under the ATIA

 

 

yo - | SECRET

Respecting Contracting of Public Bodies that will or may render applicants ineligible for public
contracts in consultation with UPAC.

Quebec’s debarment regime currently applies to construction and public private partnership contracts
over $5 million and service contracts over $1 million.

Suppliers convicted of specific offences under both federal and provincial legislation are debarred for
up to five years. The Authority also has wide discretion to refuse to grant or to renew an authorization
or may revoke an authorization if a supplier fails to meet the high standards of integrity that the public
is entitled to expect from a party to a public contract or subcontract. The Registre des entreprises non
admissibles aux contrats publics must be consulted for public contracts to ensure that bidders are not
debarred. Suppliers established outside of Quebec are required to provide a “good conduct
certificate”, sworn letter, criminal/penal court record or an equivalent document when bidding. °

Case study: New Brunswick

New Brunswick has implemented a legislation-based debarment regime under its Procurement Act '
and General Regulation. A supplier is disqualified from provincial procurement if convicted of a
number of offences under six federal statutes (i-e., Criminal Code, Corruption of Foreign Public
Officials Act, Controlled Drugs and Substances Act, etc.). Periods of debarment last for a maximum of
five years, proportional to the offence. In the case of three offences (sections 463-465 of the Criminal .
Code) the disqualification period could be more than five years, based on the set term of the sentence.

The New Brunswick regime allows for some discretion. A supplier may be disqualified for documented
significant or persistent deficiencies in fulfilling or performing a substantive requirement or obligation

under a prior contract or contracts.

Case study: The World Bank.

When firms or individuals participating in World Bank Group-financed projects are found, through
investigation, to have engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, collusive or obstructive practices on a World
Bank project, the World Bank may impose a debarment. Debarred entities are then ineligible to be
awarded a contract, either permanently or for a designated period of time. Decisions on how long a
firm or individual is debarred are made through a two-tier adjudicative process based on the severity
of the misconduct, the harm caused by the misconduct, and the past history of adjudicated
misconduct. There can also be mitigating factors that influence decisions, such as a minor role in the
misconduct, voluntary corrective action taken, and cooperation.

The World Bank places an emphasis on 1 debarred parties meeting certain integrity compliance
conditions before they can once again participate in World Bank Group-financed projects. These
conditions encourage debarred parties to focus on rehabilitating their business practices.

}

What is the Government of Canada doing?

The Government of Canada is committed to being accountable to Canadians; protecting the
. stewardship of public funds; embodying and observing high ethical standards; and reflecting public

AREER SNES NEE TPMT REDS TSN PTR Ta le BEN AP PR er en IC cr

Public Services and Procurement Canada . ane &
000009
