Divulgue en vertu de la LAI
‘)Released under the ATIA *

 

SECRET

a. Online consultation on discussion papers

Each department will develop discussion papers for stakeholders to review and comment on.
They will provide an understanding and greater context on the Integrity Regime and DPAs, ~
outline some key considerations and possibilities, and pose a series of questions for response.
The consultation period will be open for 60 days. Comments may be submitted through the
online Consulting with Canadians platform or a general email address (i.e. separate accounts
for Integrity Regime and DPAs). ,

b. Meetings

Similar to the situation involved in the National Security consultations, DoJ officials will engage
key justice sector stakeholders directly, through existing mechanisms.

Since implementation of the Regime, PSPC officials have held regular meetings with the
Integrity Regime Industry Association Working Group. In collaboration with other federal
officials, PSPC will hold a 3-hour meeting with this working group. Half of the meeting will be
focused on the Integrity Regime and the other half will be used to discuss the possible
introduction of DPAs.

‘In addition to these sessions, meetings will be held, to the extent possible, with stakeholders to
' discuss their views on the Intregrity Regime and/or on a possible Canadian DPA regime

(meeting requests will be assessed on‘a case by case basis for feasibility). Such meetings will
be conducted jointly by PSPC and Dod officials, when relevant.

_3.2 Outreach and communication

In order to raise awareness of the online consultation opportunities and maximize potential

participation levels across all stakeholder groups, PSPC and DoJ will launch two to three

communication blitzes: leading up to the online consultations, upon the launch and prior to the

closing date. Once the consultations have closed, a message will be placed on the Consulting
. with Canadians website to thank stakeholders for their participation and feedback.

a. Pre-launch announcement

One week prior to launch, departments will announce their intention to consult on the Integrity
Regime and the possible introduction of DPAs. A standard communiqué will be distributed
through broadcast and targeted messaging to raise awareness and encourage participation in
the upcoming consultation activities.

Broadcast messaging would include:

e placing a notice on the Buy&Sell.gc.ca and Integrity Regime websites, and in PSPC's
‘In the Know’; and

000025
