 

: . . Divulgué en vertu'de Ja LAI
s.21(1)(b) ‘ . Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

‘DRAFT . SECRET
ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

these meetings will be conducted jointly. For example, it is expected that engagement of
industry associations will be jointly held with departmental officials to ensure efficiency of

the process.

High interest stakeholders
e Groups within this category include suppliers, industry associations and
representatives of the legal profession, who will generally be well informed and familiar
with the Integrity Regime and the general parameters of DPAs. oe
These stakeholders have a strong
interest in the Integrity Regime and -the introduction of DPAs in terms of the impact on
industry and some have engaged with the GoC on these issues in the past.

Medium interest stakeholders
e Groups within this category include civil society organizations and professional
communities and they have demonstrated interest in the Integrity Regime and DPAs
’ through articles and publications. They have knowledge of compliance regimes and
may highlight measures and best practices they consider may be beneficial to the
Integrity Regime.

Modest interest stakeholders
e Groups within this category include stakeholders such as advocacy groups -

_ They may also be supportive of using the Integrity
Regime for social and environmental policy goals. These stakeholders will help inform
the range of social policy objectives that may be promoted or advanced through
- procurement and debarment regimes. :

Media Scan (August 2016 to August 2017)
See Annex A for list of related articles

« Media coverage related to public procurement and corruption was limited-with 16
written articles over the analyzed period. Coverage was national in. scope, mostly
reporting factually on alleged fraud cases concerning companies with federal
government contracts, such as SNC-Lavalin, which signed an administrative
agreement with PSPC in December 2015, allowing the firm to continue doing
business with the government pursuant to the Regime.

e The articles also set out the implementation of a federal contracting fraud tip line

where whistleblowers can report suspected fraud, collusion or corruption in federal,
government contracts and real property agreemenis.

000039
