Divulgué en vertu de la LAI

 

Released under the ATIA *

Ba ER ER TR SE CE ee ee eee ee cect ste

SECRET ’

expectations around transparency, open and citizen-centered government in procurement practices.
Over time, Canada has established a strong framework to support integrity in its procurement and real
property transactions, with strong governance, codes of conduct, fairness monitoring, audits, financial -
controls, internal investigations and, more recently, the Federal Contracting Fraud Tip Line.

In addition to these tools, Canada administers a debarment regime that has undergone.a series of
changes to improve its rigour and broaden its application, beginning with the introduction of the .
Integrity Framework in 2012.

Integrity Framework

In July 2012, Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC), the main contracting arm of the
Government of Canada, regrouped many of its oversight measures into a formal debarment regime,
‘the Integrity Framework. The Framework applied to PSPC contracts and real property agreements
and expanded on the existing Code of Conduct for Public Procurement. In addition to the offences
included in the Code (i.e. corruption, collusion, bid-rigging, fraud committed against her Majesty, etc.)
a supplier could also be rendered ineligible (term used by the Government of Canada in place of
debarred) for fraud, money laundering, participation in activities of criminal organizations, income and.
excise tax evasion, bribing a foreign public official and offences related to drugs.

Later that same year, PSPC removed the leniency exemption from ihe Framework, which previously
allowed an applicant to come forward, cooperate and plead guilty in exchange for lenient treatment in
sentencing, and introduced a public interest exception.

In February 2014 nine new offences were added to the Framework including:

* extortion « fraudulent manipulation of stock exchange
e bribery of judicial officers transactions

e bribery of officers e prohibited insider trading

e secret commissions e forgery of other offences resembling forgery
e criminal breach of contract _ © falsification of books and documents

The ineligibility period for a supplier convicted of or having pleaded guilty to an Integrity Framework
offence was ten years with no exceptions. In addition, suppliers who were convicted of a similar foreign
offence were also debarred from contract award. Finally, suppliers were required to bind their
subcontractors to the same terms and conditions listed in their contract or lease agreement with PSPC.

Integrity Regime

In July 2015, the Government of Canada introduced an updated Integrity Regime to foster ethical
business practices, ensure due process and uphold the public trust. Unlike its predecessor, the Regime
applies to contracts and real property agreements awarded by all federal departments and agencies
under Schedule |, I.1 and Il of the Financial Administration Act, with some exceptions. This drastically
expanded the scope of application. The Regime is articulated in the Ineligibility and Suspension Policy

and Integrity clauses.

Key features of the Regime are as follows:

‘PRA NSE NN te a AE RRA AER PRS ME TEES TE

Public Services and Procurement Canada ' page 6
000010
