Divulgue en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

. SECRET -

f) Final consultation results/reports

3. Consultation Approach

Consultations will be conducted on a possible Canadian DPA regime and the Integrity Regime
in a joint process to be co-led by PSPC and DoJ, and supported by Innovation, Science and
Economic Development Canada (ISED) and Global Affairs Canada. The two initiatives will be ©
positioned under the common theme of “Expanding Canada’s Toolkit to. Address Corporate
Wrongdoing’. Canadians will be engaged on key issues related to unethical business
practices in the context of public procurement and the possible introduction of a DPA regime to

address corporate crime.

Although consultations will fall under the same overarching umbrella, they will be conducted in
two streams: one stream for each initiative. A limited consultation approach will be employed.
The principal mechanism will be on- -line consultations supported by meetings with specific
target groups. Views and opinions shared during the consultations will be considered in the

development of options moving forward.

In order to balance the limitations of selecting one primary method of engagement (i.e. the
online activity) departments will develop an aggressive communications plan to encourage
participation among targeted stakeholders, and groups and minorities (women and young
entrepreneurs, indigenous businesses, small and medium enterprises, etc.).

3.1 Methods of engagement

The consultations will be launched using the Consulting with Canadians website. The home
page will introduce the joint consultation process, under the overarching theme of addressing
corporate wrongdoing. It will provide a synopsis of the two streams of consultations that are
taking place. Stakeholders will be able to click on the consultation initiative they wish. to
participate in (e.g. the Integrity Regime or on a possible Canadian DPA regime), which will
redirect them to another webpage. For example, when participants are redirected to the
Integrity Regime Consultations page, they will be provided information on engagement
objectives, a list of targeted stakeholders, information on the online consultation (e.g.
submission period), the discussion guide for review and comment, and a brief overview of what

to expect next.

Similarly, when a stakeholder accesses the DPA consultation webpage, they will be provided
similar information.

Both departments will monitor submissions and should an organization submit one paper but
cover both streams, that submission will be share with the other department.

000024
