 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

“DRAFT August 10, 2017 . SECRET

EXPANDING CANADA’S TOOLKIT TO ADDRESS CORPORATE
‘WRONGDOING

The Government of Canada is seeking views of stakeholders on enhancements to the
Integrity Regime and on factors that should be taken into account i in reviewing the
desirability of implementing a possible Canadian DPA regime.

Context

Corporate wrongdoing’ imposes significant economic, political and social costs.
Behaviours linked to corporate wrongdoing undermine fair competition, threaten the
integrity of markets, constitute barriers to economic growth, increase cost and risk of
doing business, and undermine public and investor confidence.~

- Many governments, including Canada’s, are committed to taking action against
improper and unethical business practices and holding companies criminally liable for
such conduct. This is achieved through a framework of laws, regulations, governance
frameworks, ‘policies and programs, etc., that seek to detect, prevent and address such
practices. The stability of the marketplace is inextricably linked to a good and stable’
government. Companies are also playing a role by implementing stronger internal
controls, governance structures, codes of conduct and compliance regimes.

The Canadian government has implemented a number of measures to deter companies
from participating in corporate misconduct. These include amending or updating -
legislation such as the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the Competition Act,
the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and the Terrorist Financing Act. Other
measures include conducting investigations and initiating prosecutions against those
who contravene an Act of Parliament, as well as developing and implementing non-
legislative initiatives such as Public Services and Procurement Canada’s (PSPC) Code
of Conduct for Procurement, Fairness Monitoring Program, and Anti-Fraud Tip Line
(joint initiative of the RCMP, Competition Bureau and PSPC), and the Government-wide

Integrity Regime.
Review and consultations

After introducing a government-wide Integrity Regime (Regime) over two years ago, itis —
useful to review whether it is achieving its objectives and whether it is efficient in doing
so. This assessment is also an opportunity to consider how the Regime addresses new
trends-and risks in a constantly changing marketplace.

This assessment is also an opportunity to consider the possibility of introducing a

Canadian Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) regime as an additional tool for
_prosecutors, to be used in appropriate circumstances, to ensure that corporate criminal

conduct is subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties and to assist in

 

1 Refers to the behaviours of companies or other business related legal entitles.

000003
