Divulgueé en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA .

SECRET" i

 

 

oy ALERT Sree. . eee ee oe

periods, compliance requirements, administration, etc.), each has a common goal of ensuring that
contracts using public funds are not awarded to unethical suppliers, with varying levels of discretion.

Case study: United States of America (US)

In the US, regulations dictate circumstances in which a supplier may be debarred from receiving
federal funds. The US model balances mandatory and discretionary provisions. For-example, a
supplier will be debarred if it is convicted under, or is in violation.of a statute (e.g., violations of federal
or state controlled substance laws; certain violations of the Buy America Act, Clean Air Act, Clean
Water Act, etc.). Alternatively, a supplier-may be debarred if it commits a serious violation of thé terms
of a government contract or certain statutes, or if there is significant evidence (typically an indictment)
or any other cause s0 serious or compelling to justify debarment. A supplier may also be suspended
from award on the basis of evidence, an investigation or charges.

Periods of debarment, where mandatory, are spelled out in relevant legislation. For discretionary
debarment, a supplier may be excluded for three years and this can be extended. Each agency
applies required federal regulations to its own contracting and renders their own debarment decisions,
which are reported centrally. There are no monetary thresholds associated with the application of the
regime. It applies to all federal funds (e.g., contracts, grants and contributions, etc.).

Case study: United Kingdom (UK)

' The UK’s debarment regime is enshrined in the European Union Directives and the UK Public
Contracts Regulations and applies to public sector contracting authorities in the purchase of goods, .
supplies, and services, as well as lease to purchase agreements with varying monetary thresholds.

A supplier is debarred based on a conviction of a listed offence (i.e. conspiracy, corruption, fraudulent
trading, money laundering, etc.) or if it is in breach of its tax and social security obligations. These
mandatory debarments last five years from the date of exclusion. A discretionary debarment may take
place in instances such as non-compliance with specified laws, bankruptcy, grave professional
misconduct, anti-competitive behaviour, conflict of interest, poor performance, etc. A discretionary
debarment lasts three years. Self-cleaning measures may be considered to avoid exclusion from
public procurement (i.e., paying or undertaking to pay compensation in respect to damages; clarifying
facts and circumstances by collaborating with investigating authorities; taking measures to prevent
further criminal offences or misconduct, etc.).

Similar to Canada, the UK government may enter into a contract with a debarred supplier if it is in the
public interest to do so (i.¢e., public health or protection of the environment).

Case study: Quebec

Quebec has implemented a legislation-based certification to bid regime whereby suppliers and
subcontractors apply for approval through Autorité des marches financiers (AMF) which works with
L’Unité permanente anticorruption (UPAC). Suppliers and subcontractors competing in a call for
tenders or an award process equal to or greater than these threshold must apply for approval. The
AMF verifies applicants against a number of federal, provincial and other offences legislated in An Act

 

 

Cig RER GRRL RPT REAR ITE YEE ATR ORT AOE REE EE, PES PERT UT LT TOIT EET BETTE IE ES ET OS ee EN A Tatianna SE DROIT REINER Vth

Public Services and Procurement Canada page 4
‘ 000008
