Divulgueé en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

SECRET

 

Expanding Canada’s Toolkit to Address Corporate Wrongdoing .
Discussion paper for public consultation — Integrity Regime stream

Setting the context

The Government of Canada spends billions of dollars annually to buy goods and services on behalf of
Canadians and to support government operations. Given the sizeable financial flows of these
expenditures, contracts and real property transactions have the potential to leave the Government of
Canada vulnerable to fraud, collusion and corruption. This could include, but is not limited to, bid-
rigging, price fixing, bribery, undisclosed conflicts of interest, and fraudulent contract performance

- schemes. Public procurement is also vulnerable to organized crime, which negatively affects the daily

lives of Canadians.’

The direct costs of these types of wrongdoing in public procurement include loss of public funds
through misallocations or higher expenses, as well as lower quality of goods, services and works.”
This can result in less available financial resources to address other priorities and further erode trust
and confidence in public institutions. In a direct way, corruption in public procurement leads to
distortion of competition, limited market access, and reduced business appetite for foreign investors. °

Internationally, a number of cases within public contracting have highlighted these risks. This has
spurred renewed commitments from international bodies, such as the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), the World Bank, and the United Nations, to further combat

bribery and corruption.

Although it is difficult to measure the exact cost of corruption, it has been estimated that between 10-
30% of the investment in publicly funded construction projects internationally may be lost through
mismanagement and corruption.* The World Bank also estimates that businesses and individuals pay

an estimated $1.5 trillion in bribes each year.®
What role do governments play in protecting the integrity of public procurement?

All governments have an obligation to protect and safeguard the use and expenditure of public funds,
to ensure strong stewardship and transparency, and to uphold public trust. There are a number of
ways that this can be achieved in the context of public procurement, including, but not limited to,
debarment. Debarment is generally defined as the exclusion of an entity from receiving public

contracts.

What are other jurisdictions doing?

A number of jurisdictions have what is commonly referred to as a debarment regime. Although the
parameters of each regime differ (i.e., reasons for debarment, application of the regime, debarment

 

4. Criminal Intelligence Service Canada. Organized Crime in Canada -- Backgrounder http://www.cisc.gc.ca/media/2014/2014-08-22-eng.htm
2 OECD. Preventing Corruption in Public Procurement http://www.oeed.ore/eov/ethics/Corruption-in-Public-Procurement-Brochure, df
3 OECD. Preventing Corruption in Public Procurement http://www.oecd.ore/eov/ethics/Corruption-in-Public-Procurement-Brochure.pdf

* Construction Sector Transparency Initiative. Press Release http://www.constructiontranspa rency.org/documentdownload.axd?documentresourceid=8
5 The World Bank. Combating Corruption. http://www.worldbank.ore/en/topic/governance/brief/a nti-corruption

 

WEE ai

page 3
000007

PALES EEE ROE

Public Services and Procurement Canada
