Q

Document Released Under the Access to
IrRacument Released Wider thevApesertocrtu
dinfarmation AstLDogument disulaye en vertu
de la Loi sur I'aceés a l'information
Growing understanding of user security on mobile devices, encryption and general security awareness.
Interconnectivity and utility of different platforms, leveraged by extremists to convey their messages
and coordinate.
A malleable environment, in which terrorist actors can easily move from.one or more platforms to
another, more permissive platform(s). —
A shift by terrorist organizations to encrypted platforms, such as Telegram and WhatsApp, which create
additional difficulties for surveillance, interception and counter-messaging.
Changing real world environment, with the Islamic State under pressure in Iraq and Syria how will
communication/propaganda initiatives and networks change? Incitement to violence at home likely to
increase, with foreign fighter flows greatly diminished.
Spread of production and dissemination techniques pioneered or greatly improved upon by the Islamic
State to other similar organizations — Al Qaeda Central, Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, Al Shabaab, Boko Haram
etc.
Open Source Jihad: creation of extremist material not only by centralized and affiliated terrorist group
media hubs, but by individual activists who create  supportive/inciting materials in a number of
languages.
Different narratives promoted by radical groups, not only the Islamic State, that are place, culture, issue,
ideology and event specific.

- Counter Messaging:

o
oO

Ongoing Efforts:

Does counter messaging work?

Difficulties assessing the impact, the goal is to dissuade individuals from being radicalized/joining an
organization/carrying out an attack. Difficult to measure events/actions that didn’t take place as a result
of counter messaging.

Difficulties around a concerted counter messaging strategy among government agencies/departments in
the same country, let alone between countries or among member states of International organizations.
This is not to mention other similar difficulties in public-private partnerships.

No agreed upon strategies/metrics/prominent public initiatives focused on determining the
effectiveness of counter messaging campaigns/programs. __

Countries, their institutions and partners are much slower to react to terrorist content than terrorist
groups create and disseminate content. Because of this and changing geo-political/conflict/other
circumstances terrorist narratives, messaging strategies and dissemination tactics change rapidly:
Counter messaging needs to become more nimble and proactive/reactive.

. Lack of credibility among target audience(s) regarding both government and their counter-messaging

partners: what should the role of government be in counter messaging? Which partners are to be
chosen? What does credibility look like?

Mishandling of pervious counter-messaging campaigns. (ex. Think Again Turn Away): what are the

lessons learned and how can they be applied to future initiatives?

.

- US Department of State Global Engagement Center (Global Engagement Center)

°

°
°

Q

oO
°

Replaced the Center for Strategic Counterterrorism Communications, charged with coordinating US
counterterrorism messaging to foreign audiences.

Focused on “partner-driven messaging and data analytics”

Partners include: NGOs, schools, young peopie, social/civil society leadership, religious leadership,
governments and others

Leverages data analytics to understand dynamics, guide and inform messaging efforts and measure
effectiveness

Develop and procure unbranded content that is made available to global partners

Interagency engagement: US national security agencies that operate in the information space

- Private Sector Engagement in Responding to the Use of the Internet and ICT for Terrorist Purposes (ICT4Peace
and UNCT ED).

ao0c002

000004
