Document Released Under the Access to

Ibosunient Reledded Undet theukceesmtocrtu

dinfertatian AottBooutndm diviigaé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information.

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: ‘ Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Sent: Thursday, January 26, 2017 12:44 PM
To: : _ Corbeil, Alexander (PS/SP)

Subject: : RE: Event Notes

Attachments: . report canada internet.docx |

Great stuff — thank you! Now key next bit is that I’d like some help pulling together more precise ideas about what kinds
of processes (individual, group, community) are relevant to consider.

This line of yours below is a great example of what J have in mind:

- (Note: Question becomes how to ensure potential members do not follow into the depths of IS Telegram
accounts, what role for messaging in countering this progression?)

Examples would be the three dynamics listed in the attached ICSR paper.
Or the ‘who matters online’ paper by Berger a while back, plus his more recent arguments on

Also thinking about the ideas in the ‘cyber psych’ paper (h tsas ca tsas library ent ilts S- sment-of-

 

extremism/), such as the formation of certain kinds of identity groups, along with examples form Lorne and Amar’s
recent work. The Vidino paper here (http://carleton.ca/npsia/research/working-papers/) would have some as well,
along with ISD’s One-to-One, or Moonshot/Jigsaw work (trying to catch early searching, etc.).

In short, it would be great to have a bit of a list (incomplete for now to be sure!), of some examples of what one would
be trying to accomplish, such as ‘to ensure potential members do not follow...’

 

From: Corbeil, Alexander (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, January 25, 2017 2:23 PM
To: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Subject: Event Notes

Hey Brett,
” Here are my notes regarding the event we discussed.

The event’s goals are as follows: 1) Describe terrorist messaging capabilities and associated challenges 2) Measure the
effectiveness of allied efforts 3) Share best practices in messaging.

Defining the Problem:
- Context: .
o Ease of access to terrorist messaging and propaganda: the globalization of real-time terrorist

facilitation/financing, incitement/inspiration, training and planning.

© Aprofessionatization of extremist content online, enabled by the proliferation and reduce in cost of
professional quality camera, sound and editing equipment; also the presence of Western and other
“foreign fighters” who have both the technological knowhow and cultural/linguistic relevance related to

their target audiences.

000001

000003
