Document Released Under the Access to

InDocutiont Released Uredd che lavéess rertu
dérifoimation Atooaliménnaiingué en vertu
de la Loi sur Faccés a |'information

Conclusion ~ Refocusing the Policy Debate

This report has attempted to provide a more nuariced understanding of the recruitment of British
nationals to the ‘Islamic State.’ It has had two related objectives; to make clear the distinctions
between radicalisation and recruitment with reference to the desires, decisions and actions of the
recruit; and to provide a more nuanced understanding of the influence of the Internet on the
mobilisation process as a whole. Without such distinctions, the investigations into the serious
and complex issue of preventing foreign fighter recruitment devolves into misunderstandings
that not only affect academic accuracy but, as has been highlighted, public policy.

The ‘Internet causality’ narrative has heavily affected the debate regarding the roles and
responsibilities of governments and Internet companies. The narrative is at the heart of a
conundrum, summarised by former Google executive Andrew McCaughlin in the following way:

““You want to live in a world where people have access ta news — in other words,
documentary evidence of what is actually happening. And an ISIS video of hostages being
beheaded is both an act of propaganda and is itself a fact. And so if you're a platform,
you don't want to suppress the facts. On the other hand, d, you don’t want to participate in
advancing propaganda. And there is the conundrum. "4

The situation has undoubtedly become more complex since the time of Osama Bin Laden, whose
messages were smuggled out of the remote locations they were filmed in and couriered to Al
Jazeera. Seeing the Internet a as just a platform, even if exaggerated for satirical effect, seems
increasingly disingenuous.’ Even Bin Laden acknowledged this difference, stating in a letter

found in his compound that “The wide-scale spread of jihadist ideology, especially on the ~
Internet, and the tremendous number of young people who frequent the Jihadist Web sites [are] a
major achievement for jihad.”!**

If the freedom of speech versus security debate is not being placed in emotive, Orwellian
language, it is invariably placed in black and white terms. For Wallace, who argues that Twitter’s
indirect promotion of violence and calls to violence is the equivalent of providing material
support to terrorist organisations, concludes that if Intemet companies are not willing to be part
of the solution, they are part of the problem.“ Twitter dissents by arguing that a distinction must
be made between platform and content. Colin Crowell, the firm’s head of global public policy,
claims that the “key thing...is to recognize [Twitter's] role.as the provider of this open platform
for free expression . . . to recognize that that speech is not our own” and that a duty to respect
and to defend those voices on the platform,” is crucial. “The platform of any debate is neutral.
The platform doesn’t take sides.”'*’ The issue can be simplified down to philosophical and

“3 Higham, S., Nakashima, E., ‘Why the Islamic State leaves tech companies torn between free speech and
security, The Washington Pe Post, July 16", 2015, accessed August 26", 2015,
h hi m/world/ LL ty/is!

 

6141 st ‘ory htm ?postshare=773 143706104 308
™ Thid. (2015)
5 Thid. (2015)
_ 46 s
7 Thid, (2015
31
000219

000122
