Document Released Under the Access to

InacurtientAReéleGeed bindécthalGodess tertu

ddiifotroation aetASectingntdituigué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

" the past.’!° “The online space is a way of e: expanding teenagers’ ability to be with friends when
they aren’t able to be with them in person.”

From the perspective of radicalisation, this behaviour creates online milieus that act as echo
chambers in which interactions based on ‘in-group love’ and/or ‘out-group hate’ can build
powerful social bonds, especially in the case of violent extremism. Brewer notes that equilibrium
is achieved through “identification with distinctive social groups that meet both needs
simultaneously. Inclusion needs are satisfied by assimilation within the group while
differentiation is satisfied by intergroup distinctions.”! To devolve to violence is an attempt to
earn acceptance, respect and ultimately love within the group one is attempting to identify with.
Another dynamic, provided by McCauley and Moskalenko and reiterated by Sageman, is that of
the ‘tisky shift.” When a group initially begins to form, there i is an increased level of agreement,
and a ‘shift’ in opinion from the moderate to the extreme.!™ Sageman expands on this theory by
focusing in on the level of the individual. Extremists, he argues, radicalise in order to attain
identity within the "clique" rather than due to ideology or ‘out-group’ animosity. Grievances
within the clique become amplified, bonds become stronger and values become more insular and
rejectionist towards the outside world.!™

All of this evidence chimes with the experiences of the recruits in our sample. Each recruit had © ©
significant social media footprints, indicating a large amount of time spent online, and used the
mediums to expand their social circles. It was through Twitter, for example, that the Manchester
duo of Abu Qa’qaa and Raphael Hostey came across Ifthekar Jaman and the Portsmouth cluster,
with whom they would subsequently meet and receive tazkiyyah.! °5 Tam Hussein, writing about
the West London fighter Fatlum Shakalu, noted this about the group from which he’ emerged,
that is applicable to each of the clusters in our sample:

“The [online/offline] connections they were making, the culture they were creating...they
had their own terminology, they wore their Salafi-Jihadism on their robes, blended it
with rebellious Roadmannism, garnished it with a bit of Anwar Awlaki, Quran, Sunnah
and a bit of thug life. They could yearn desperately for forgiveness and paradise, and in
their youthful ardour want a sense of belonging and adventure. 1106 /

Building a Stake in the Conflict

 

1 Dell’ Antonia, K.J., ‘Teenagers Leading Happy, C Connected Lives Online’, The New York Times, August 6°, 2015,
last accessed August 26%, 2015 at http://parenting. blogs.nytimes. com/2015/08/06/teenagers-leading-happy- :
connected-lives-online/
yor oy Did. (2015)

2 Brewer, M. B., ‘In-group Identification and Conflict: When does In-group Love Become Out-group Hate’,
In Social Identity, Intergroup Conflict, and Conflict Reduction, ed. by Ashmore, E., et al., Oxford: OUP, 2001, p. 43
13 McCauley, M., & Moskalenko, S., "Mechanisms of Political Radicalization," Terrorism and Political Violence,
Vol. 20, 2008, p. 421

10 Sageman, M., "The Next Generation of Terror,” Foreign Policy, Vol. 165, 2008, p. 41
105 This is further explained in Chapter Three.
108 Hussein (2015)

22

000210

000113
