&.19(1) Document Released Under the Access to

infesaniian Aslédeea unast da wuesarwertu
dpfarkritit Ager Boauritdar aivuigté on vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a finformation
© An attempt to establish guidelines for private-public partnerships in addressing the availability of
extremist content online; includes the develop of tools and mechanisms to counter terrorist and violent
extremist narratives.
© Findings and guidelines from which will be presented to the Security Council, likely this year.
- UKand Swiss Governments, supported by the institute for Strategic Dialogue and Democratic Control of Armed
Forces, have sought to review government best practices. (Globa! Counterterrorism Forum)
o Efforts focus on communications (challenge the appeal of propaganda) and co-governance (init the
availability and accessibility of propaganda online)
o Outcomes document, including recommendations and next steps to be submitted March 2017 and
include:
= Impact — better understand the impact of efforts in countering and removing propaganda
‘= Scale -takedown. measures and counter narrative programs are too slow, operate at too small of
a scale to effectively challenge propaganda (see Samir Kassir Foundation study below) ,
= Future — the threat of terrorism is diversifying and technology is evolving, need to change/adapt
communications and be forward looking. ( Note: While the threat of other groups using such
technology is diversifying, it’s also just starting to be focused on now that the Islamic State is
losing ground. Studies such as those on Telegram and other platforms/online strategies by other
groups are important here)
- UNcurrently developing a comprehensive framework on CVE strategic communications with a focus on counter

narratives (UNCTITF)
© Proposal to be presented at the Security Council April 12, 2017.

Measuring Effectiveness:
- Leveraging social media platform analytics to follow the reach and resonance of counter-messaging
initiatives/conducting qualitative and quantitative studies of response to the counter-messaging campaign
Extre ialogue Report).

© Tracking both quantitative and qualitative measurements to ensure not only that the initiative is
reaching a large audience, but that it is also reaching and resonating with the appropriate audience.

© Incorporating both positive and negative perceptions of the counter-messaging campaign into best
practices (can be done by analyzing comments on social media and those related to news
articles/stories/information about the campaign).

‘o Creating a feedback loop in order to constantly improve counter-messaging narratives, engagement

strategies, distribution patterns, and the use of advertising funds, where applicable.

© Overcoming hesitation and unwillingness of counter-messaging organizations/creators to measure the
effectiveness of these i in Itiatives.

- Producing on-the-ground/offline studies to measure the reach and resonance of counter-messaging initiatives

s.19(1) (Samir Kassir Foundation) —

° " —_ —_ ae must also be quantitatively and qualitatively measured. While

resources are put towards the creation of counter-messaging, not enough is done to measure the
effectiveness of such initiatives. Furthermore, engaging with at-risk communities (the target audience)
can also set the foundation for/feed into effective campaigns:

© The study Reception and Perception of Radical Messages involved interviews with Sunni individuals from
communities in Lebanon deemed most at risk of radicalization and with Syrian refugees living near
Beirut.

o Finding #5: “the potent production value of radical messages was more pronounced when compared to
counter-radical messaging as the content is more attractive than the messages preaching true
religiosity, moderation and tolerance because the style and tone of the moderate messages are highly
boring and monotonous.”

 

000003

000005
