Document Released Under the Access to

nfesealientreidacer Drab rlinyaiese. Ye
ee eres en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a !informatian

perhaps had no indication that Kalantar was in any way radicalised. This is a common theme for
foreign fighters around the world; the family of teenager Abdullah Emir, an Australian convert to
Islam who travelled to Syria and became the frontman of at least two ISIS videos, believed that
he had gone on a fishing trip. The family only became aware of his intentions when he contacted
them from Turkey, days before crossing the border into Syria.'”?

It also indicates the importance of offline interactions in facilitating mobilisation, rather than
irrational fanaticism. Reports suggest that Mohammed Baryalei, a known foreign fighter
recruiter in Sydney, heavily influenced Elmir’s rapid radicalisation and mobilisation.'*4 For
Kalantar, his close friendships with Amani and Hadi appear crucial in explaining his
mobilisation. Kalantar and Amani are featured prominently in online postings, specifically
Instagram, in which Ali refers to them as “brothers since day one” and Mohammed Hadi as a
“brother from different mother.”'?5

The influence of the imam is yet to be fully understood. Reports from the family at the time
suggested that Kalantar had been ‘groomed’ by the imam, confirming that Kalantar had been
spending more time at the Mosque.’® The full extent of these interactions on Kalantar’s desire
and decision to travel will probably never be known. However, reports from his family suggest
that they did coincide with a change in his behaviour, that he had taken more interest in Islam
and began praying regularly. Kalantar had been commenting on and sharing propaganda material
for a minimum of six months before finaily leaving; that the contact with the imam was only in
the final month of this time period strengthens the idea that the relationship may have
precipitated Kalantar’s decision to make hijrah, thus highlighting the importance of offline
interactions. Similar relationships with imams have been reported by the families of men from
the Cardiff Cluster (involving brothers Aseel and Nasser Muthana, and their friend Reyaad
Khan),.and for a number of men from West London including Fatlum Shalaku.

Ifthekar Jaman: Establishing a Tazkiyyah Network

One of the most illuminating examples comes from a large cluster of fighters associated with
Ifthekar Jaman, a young man from Portsmouth who travelled to Syria in May 2013.'*’ The
trajectory of his radicalisation is largely typical. Having watched videos on YouTube about the
Syrian uprising, Jaman was told by local imams that the conflict was sectarian in nature and
therefore not a “true” jihad! Unconvinced, he researched more controversial opinions online

3 «Teen Jihadist Abdullah Elmir groomed like paedophile victim: terrorism expert’, Sydney Morning Herald,
October 22™ 2014, accessed on April 26" 2015, at http://www.smh.com.aw/national/teen-jihadist-abdullah-elmir-
proomed-like-paedophile-victim-terrorism-expert-20 141022-119x0z.html

Baryalei had links with some of Australia’s most notorious foreign fighters, including Mohammed Elomar and
Khaled Sharouff. .
195 See Appendix; Figures 22, 23.
136 Taher (2014) ——
15? Maher, S., ‘From Portsmouth to Kobane: the British jihadis fighting for Isis,’ New Statesman, November 6,
2014, accessed August 26, 2015, http://www.newstatesman.com/2014/10/portsmouth-kobane.
38 Shiraz Maher interview with Ifthekar Jaman, Skype, 2013

28

000216

000119
