Document Released Under the Access to

$.13(1)(a) DéournditiRabtas8ddimonthivibpesetovertu
' . , infdrniation AthtBecunianbdhmulgud en vertu
s.15(1) - Int'l . de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

subject of the Syrian foreign fighter movement. This evidence, along with
intelligence provided by ICSR, featured prominently in the Home Affairs
Committee’s 17% annual counter-terrorism report of 2013/2014. :

m0 ct/cmhafi

    

      

- House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee (December 2013)
Shiraz Maher gave oral evidence to the Foreign Affairs Committee on the topic of
“The crisis in Syria and the impact upon its neighbours.”

H A WDA

 
 
 

 
  
 

INTERNATIONAL BODIES & GOVERNMENTS

United Nations Security Council (September 2014) ;
Peter Neumann served as a Senior Advisor to the United States Mission and the UN

Security Council on Syrian foreign fighters.

Embassies of Israel, Australia, Canada, United States, Japan, Norway, Germany
. (various meetings, August 2014 - Present}

Various members of our team have, at different times, met with and advised

representatives from all of the governments listed above. In many cases, this has been in

multiple meetings.
MISCELLANEOUS PUBLIC MEETINGS

- In March, the Syria team attended a meeting with the Home Affairs Committee on
the subject of foreign fighters in Syria, the threat they may pose to UK national
security and projections for future policy development. ICSR also provide vital
information to the Metropolitan Police, Yorkshire Police and West Midlands Police
regarding these issues, as well as sharing insight on the path of foreign fighters to
Syria by aid convoy with the UK Charity Commission. ,

- The ICSR Syria team has met on numerous occasions with members of the Canadian
government since September 2013, including; Canadian Security Intelligence
Service, Canadian Public Safety board, Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs and
International Trade, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Canada Border Services
Agency, FINTRAC and the Department of National Defence.

- In July 2014, ICSR met with the UK Ministry of Defense to discuss and advise
methods for collecting and analyzing open-source data on foreign fighters from the
West. ,

- Peter Neumann conducted a series of meetings in New York and Washington D.C.
with the Truman Security Network, Department of Homeland Security, State
Department, and SOCOM (Special Operations Command). 5.13(1}(a)

5,15{1) - Int'l

  

000054

000055
