$.13(1)(a)

Document Released Under the Access to

IeEunAt RMbaborunae dstauedergertu
Critsratren Aastesauhvaia UNUighé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

CVE-RELATED COURTESY CALLS — FALL 2015

MEETING #1 — MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SECURITY

Date: 2015-11-17 — 1300 hours

Place: Gullhaug Torg 4 (Nydalen)
RE: COURTESY CALL WITH MINISTER OF JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SECURITY

Overview of bilaterat relationship
e HOM highlighted that Norway and Canada have cooperated closely in the past on security
issues.
e Minister Anundsen reiterated this close cooperation and focussed on information sharing in
particular as a cornerstone of close cooperation.

Overview of Canadian election
“@ HOM provided a brief overview of the Canadian election. In particular, Minister Anundsen was
given a more detailed background on his two Canadian counterparts: Justice Minister Jody
Wilson-Raybould and Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale.
© In regards to the direction of the government, HOM advised that the new government has
published its mandate letters online.
Overview of Norwegian political situation 8.13(1)(a)

  
  

Norwegian foreign fighters, radicalization and radicalization prevention

; 5.13(1)(a)

® Last year the Ministry of Justice published its Action Plan against radicalization and extremist
violence. This whole-of-government approach has been weil received by national interlocutors.
The Minister considers it a robust framework for cooperation between government
organizations at different levels, as well as non-governmental organizations.

¢ The government will soon launch a new research centre focussing on Far Right extremism and
" violence. (A few days after the meeting it was announced that the University of Oslo will receive
50 million NOK to open the Center for Research on Extremism (C-REX). Tore Bjgrgo, one of
Norway’s most authoritative researchers on Far Right radicalization, was appointed as the
centre’s director.)

Update on migrant crisis
(previously sent under separate cover as OSLO-152)

000066

000067
