Document Released Under the Access to

IBoounbnt Reteabed Under tisvigvess toc

defarinalisa Ach ecuitent diatlgué en vertu
de fa Loi sur faceés a |'information

Fighting Communities

The previous chapter illustrates how the cumulative effects of interactions with online
propaganda create pains of inaction among recruits. This creates a moral crisis that has a
profound effect on their desire to mobilise. A second activity that this report argues contributes
towards radicalisation, specifically the decision to mobilise, is interaction within fighting
communities made up of recruits and fighters already in theatre.

Using modem information technology and continually evolving social media platforms, foreign
fighters and recruits can, for the first time, interact with each other directly in real time. Rather
than relying on the writings, audio recordings and video lectures of learned but inaccessible
ideologues, recruits can now receive wisdom and encouragement directly and on a personalised
basis. This unprecedented accessibility allows recruits to build a stake in the conflict, connecting
with fighters before seeking to emulate them. Using social media data, again cited in text and
presented in the appendix, this chapter will illustrate how these fighting communities are created,
how they operate and how the dynamics within them contribute towards radicalisation of the
recruit. .

Platforms

The research has identified two strands of interaction that occur within these fighting
communities, which this report categorises as anonymous and public. The platforms used provide
the fighter with the opportunity to proselytise his group’s message while giving personal advice
and guidance to recruits. These are not mutually exclusive interactions, however they are at times
distinctive within the data. ,

The anonymous strand is the interaction of recruits and fighters through platforms with
anonymity functions, the most prevalent of which is Ask.fm. This platform asks users to set up
an account, provide a name/alias and a short biography, for which the individual decides upon
the level of discretion shown. Users then receive questions from anonymous contributors; once
the user has responded, both the question and the answer are posted onto the users timeline,
concealing the identity of the questioner and providing a rolling commentary. Given the nature
of the platform, it is the strand most commonly used by fighters to give advice across a range of
topics. ;

The public strand involves the interactions of potential and actual foreign fighters over platforms
that are open, in which all participants are identified through their usernames and the personal
information they have provided. The most commonly utilised platform for this has been Twitter.
Twitter does have a privacy function, however none of the fighters in our sample had utilised it.
This is logical; for the foreign fighter, messaging over open platforms is ‘framing’ in itself.
Openly flaunting violent and ‘illegal’ activity is a central tenet to the identity of the foreign
fighter, and a common behaviour for an individual actively trying to disavow the West.

Anonymous Interaction

18

000206

000109
