Document Released Under the Access to

oven ReteadsaquHeer tne alauneiovertu
Aifdrraatian Abe? CRicahee UAL en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés 4 information -

they are being recruited, and therefore what at signs to consider in assessing risk and supporting
appropriate early intervention.

Other Kanishka-funded studies by the SecDev Foundation and by Professor Lorenzo
Vidino are showing how in a number of cases of radicalization leading to violence, patterns
of online activity shift from asking questions and seeking knowledge to increasingly closed-
minded rhetoric. As a result of their study, the SecDev Group has shifted from looking
primarily at supporting government analysis of social media for preventing radicalization to
how they can better support civil society organizations, and will soon be launching a web
portal for this purpose.

Several studies, including work led by Ryerson University and the University of Alberta,
are showing that there are significant and powerful counter-messages already being created
within communities to challenge recruitment efforts by movements like ISIS.

The work of the Kanishka Project is directly contributing to the three elements of how the
Government is working to counter violent extremism identified in the 2014 Public Report
on the Terrorist Threat to Canada. The three elements, and examples of Kanishka projects
that support progress in these areas, are as follows:

- Communities: Building Prevention Capacity

o Researchers from McGill University have expanded their Kanishka study to learn
from participants in PS-run community dialogues on real-life radicalization-to-
violence experiences and thereby better understand and address sources of intolerance

_ and potential violence. This study is called The Impact of Narratives of Conflict,
Security and Co-Existence on Muslim Communities in Canada and partners include
the community group North American Spiritual Revival as well as York
University.

o Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD) is creating short films about Canadian
‘experiences with violent extremism along with training materials, to be used as
resources for the prevention of terrorism and violent extremism by youth and
community organizations, in school settings, by police for community outreach, and
by any other partners working to prevent violent extremism (“Extreme Dialogue”).

Countering Violent Extremism: Policing and Communities

o Ryerson University and the University of Alberta are working with communities
and police in Toronto and Edmonton to study factors that heighten or reduce the risk
of violent extremism, how these differ across communities, and how police services
can strengthen partnerships tailored to local needs.

o Researchers from the Jewish General Hospital, along with Ryerson University, the
University of Quebec in Montreal, the University of Saskatchewan, and the
Environics Institute, are examining how police cultural competency training

000107

000077
