Document Released Under the Access to

InfogevatanrRétemesa Undo rine ladedss t6'tu
darfohnation| Rerrseclingit aNifgué en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information -

Meanwhile, in Manchester, another group of three men — Anil Khalil Raoufi, Mohammed Azzam
Javeed, and Abu Qa’qaa (this is his nom de guerre; his real name is unknown) — were also being
radicalised, in part, by Jaman’s public propaganda. Abu Qa’qaa published a long explanation of
his decision to travel to Syria in which he revealed that the group had been closely monitoring
events on social media and had grown increasingly angry at the situation. They reconciled
themselves to travelling but, much like Jaman, were unsure of how to reach Syria safely. After
discussing it amongst themselves, the group were uninspired but decided to “rely on Allah
alone,” and resolved to make contacts whilst in Turkey. To this end, Qa’qaa admits to having
been inspired by the teachings of the al-Qaeda ideologue Anwar al-Awlaki who had told his
followers, “hijrah [migration] is like j jumping ¢ off a cliff and not knowing what to expect at the
bottom.”

Unbeknown to Qa’qaa, both Raoufi and Javeed had decided not to delay their journey and
bought airline tickets to Turkey. Although Qa’qaa did not have enough money for the journey,
he was supported by Raoufi and Javeed who paid for his ticket. This incident again demonstrates

_the importance of peers in enabling their friends when at the tipping point between radicalisation
and mobilisation. Once in Turkey the trio began reaching out to fighters in the hope of receiving
tazkiyyah. It was impossible. Unknown to anyone inside the country, no one was prepared to
vouch for them.

When the group contacted [fthekar Jaman he was similarly unprepared to offer tazkiyyah for

individuals who were entirely unknown to him, but engineered a plan to help the Manchester © '
trio. He told them to wait in Turkey until his friends from Portsmouth arrived (who, by

coincidence, were scheduled to arrive just a few days later). They would meet and vet the

Manchester men. If they approved, Jaman would provide them with tazkiyyah.

In the event, the Portsmouth cluster was sufficiently reassured by the Manchester trio that they
advised Ifthekar Jaman to provide tazkiyyah. 142 He did, and days later all the men were taken into
Syria. This episode underscores the importance of offline interactions when winning trust
because of the potential for ambiguity when solely interacting with others online. For the
Manchester cluster this was vital and a necessary precursor to their arrival in Syria.

‘2 See Appendix; Figure 24
, 30

000035

000037
