Document Released Under the Access to

Sadia eco 6

de la Loi sur faceés a Vinformation

With regard the anonymous strand, given the sheet volume of data collected, a complete
identification of every topic was not possible.*! The research identified topics that separate into
two broad categories, both of which illuminate the role that the fighter plays in the community —
advice and inspiration. Advice falls into hijrah and non-hijrah related topics, both of which are
important. Hijrah related enquiries include the permissibility of female mobilisation, finances,
logistics of travel and fighting experience. Non-hijrah related advice tends to cover topics in
which the contributor has identified a lack of guidance in navigating everyday domestic issues

_ from schooling to personal loans.

Inspiration is a nebulous category in which recruits look to relate with the actual fighters on
more emotive terms. This can be through requests for spiritual and moral support on matters such
as mitigating against family reaction to migration and killing fellow Muslims, to at times just
sharing affection in ways synonymous with ‘in-group love.’

Public Interaction

The public strand of interactions offers a different perspective on the importance of contacts
between fighters and recruits. The fighter becomes a chameleon of different personas, from the -
missionary jihadist to the devoted martyr. In all the cases collected, members of the sample are
seen interacting with other members of the sample, some of whom have already made hijrah. In
some cases, a progression and intensification of views is visible, and at other times not. Other
interactions shown here are between fighters both of whom have already travelled. Interaction
done openly such as this sends an empowering message to recruits and thus needs to be included.

© Mashadhur Choudhary and Ifthekar Jaman

Mashadhur Choudhury was a member of the ‘Portsmouth cluster’ of fighters who travelled at
different times to Syria in 2013. Choudhary is the only member of the sample to have been

. arrested, charged and sentenced to four years in prison on his return from Syria, and thus more
knowledge of his trajectory is known. According to court documents, plans to travel developed
during the summer of 2013, culminating in his departure in the October.® 5 His interlocutor was
Ifthekar Jaman, also in our sample, who had travelled to the region in May 2013. Choudhury
only remained in the Levant for two weeks before allegedly being rejected as a recruit. Thus his
Ask.fm and his twitter do not reflect his time in theatre.

 

*! Over ten thousand unique inquiries, stored by the ICSR in full, were collected and stored in the database. This
dissertation did not have the scope to code the entire dataset.

® All of the interactions are reproduced with the original spelling and grammatical errors. See Appendix; Figures 8,
9.

33 Appendix; Figures 10, 11
s Sageman identifies love for the in-group as a strong motivating factor in the decision to commit violence. See

Sageman, M., Understanding Terror Networks, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania University Press, 2004. See Appendix;
Figures 12, 13. .

®5 Casciani, D., ‘Mashadhur Choudhary: Serial liar and jihadist’, BBC News, May 20" 2014, accessed August 26°,
2015 at http: INweww -bbe.co.uk/news/uk-2749 1066

19

000024

000026
