Document Released Under the Access to

delat teat gc ene

de fa Loi sur l'aceés & information

factors that contributed towards his accessibility. First was the style of his numerous online

videos, lectures and recordings, “a caricature of previous generations of hard-line Salafi

clerics.”!*5 Awlaki lacked the knowledge and expertise of his forbearers, but was perceived as
more authentic than the Sheikhs he looked to emulate,!!6 The messages retained the piety but lost
the religiosity, which attracted an audience that lacked the depth of education required to
appreciate the ‘heavy-weight’ ideologues of previous generations.'!” His “back-to-basics”
approach was also very effective, impacting on both emotional and intellectual levels.!!® This
increased accessibility through technology allowed recruits to emulate their ideologues and carry
the momentum of the jihadist movement without the precondition of entrenched theological and
scholarly legitimacy.

This inverse relationship between scholarly legitimacy and accessibility has reached its zenith
with the advent of modern fighting communities. Actual foreign fighters have become the lightest
of the “lite sheikhs” that Brachman and Levine theorised, the effectiveness of their messaging
and approach a result of the sheer level of accessibility they afford online. An irony is at play
here. In his exhaustive investigation into the mobilisation of Fatlum Shakalu, Hussein notes a
high number of recruits without the required skill set to properly interpret the text. For the “born
again devotee”, alienated from the community and inspired by the disembodied fighter living in
the Levant, “no middle man was required to distil that seemingly contradictory mass of Prophetic
sayings and Quranic verses.”!!° ,

Referring back to the earlier quote, the primed individuals are looking for “role models” to
emulate; the ease with which these recruits can interact with the actual fighters, who are able to
provide easy answers to difficult questions, builds familiarity trust between the fighter and the
recruit, strengthening the decision of the fighter to travel. While offering the opportunity to
produce actions that are ‘meaningful and relevant’, the communities elicit the characteristics of
the ‘in-group’, echo chambers in which the themes and sentiments intensify and result in
increased chances of radicalisation. ; .

The first two chapters have shown how online interactions can affect the desire and decision of
the recruit to mobilise. The third chapter will argue that the transition from decision to action
cannot be explained with recourse to the Internet, and instead relies on offline interactions within
and between peer groups. ‘

115 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 27
116 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 27
"7 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 28
18 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 28
119 Hussein (2015)

24

000029

000031
