Document Released Under the Access to
. nigenation Acleddaa ureter dia!kuuees eprtu
dintarkration Katy poauiisat avtigue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a information

The third pillar of wannabe fighters’ online ecosystem is interaction. Most of the time they spent
’ online, the wannabes in our sample were busy sharing content, messaging friends, bouncing off
ideas, or reading what others had posted. This came as no surprise. Social media is, by definition,
social: its principal aim and purpose is to facilitate social interaction by electronic means. What
struck us was the extent to which online interaction seemed to be central to their sense of being
part of the movement, and how it played an important role in creating a sense of duty and mutual
obligation. In many cases, online interaction spilled over into face to face meetings. In others, it
was used to connect individuals or help them gain entry into Syria. In either case, what happened
online (often) didn’t remain online: its purpose and direction was to facilitate offline meetings
through which online contacts and friendships could be mobilized and/or turned into ‘action’.

This is nothing new. As long ago as 2007, when jihadists were hanging out in password-
protected forums and Twitter and Facebook had only just started becoming household names,
Marc Sageman identified social interaction as a key variable in online radicalization. He said:

[The internet] is based on interactivity between the members, which makes participants in
[extremist online] forums change their mind. Some of the participants get so worked up
that they declare themselves ready to be terrorists... Since this process takes place at
home, often i in, the parental home, it facilitates the emergence of homegrown
radicalization.>>

The means and platforms through which online interaction takes place have changed, however.
Since the forums have stopped being the virtual ‘town squares’ in which jihadist fanboys met
and congregated, most of the fanboy socialization now takes place on open-platforms like
Twitter and then, often, migrates towards protected communications such as private messaging
applications.

The impact of Islamic State media output on this process is marginal. The group’s official videos
and statements may, at times, be a ‘conversation starter’, but more important — and far more
popular — are individual fighters’ messages and pictures which the Islamic State controls only to
a certain extent yet often spark prolonged interactions. Indeed, many of the conversations have
nothing to do with the situation in Syria but are centered on day to day experiences, the flaws
and failings of Western society, and casual jokes and banter.

The Islamic State’s media campaign, therefore, is — at best — a background noise which may be .
important during the initial process of radicalisation but ceases to be central when fighters move
from cognitive extremism to violent mobilization. The use of open platforms, direct
communications with fighters, and interaction among each other are all crucial components of
the wannabe fighters’ online ecosystem. How they affect their decision to become foreign
fighters will be the subject of the following chapters.

 

8 Mare Sageman before the U.S Senate, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Hearing
on Violent Islamist Extremism: The European Experience, June 27, 2007, pp. 1-2.

10
000015

000017
