Document Released Under the Access to
[Discunabnt Reteadodcundenthe Ages tovertu
driderhation Abd Gscartiett divalgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 Vinformation

In this instance, the grievance coagulates around the “intra-Sunni solidarity norm” as described
by Hegghammer.*! The norm creates an inclination to support “fellow Muslims in need” and
since being reinterpreted from a collective duty to an individual duty by Abdullah Azzam in the
lead up to the Afghan-Soviet war,” has been consistently repeated by ideologues since the first
throws of the Revolution.” This theme has remained prevalent in Islamic State’s current
propaganda. Victimhood is identified by Winter as one of the six core themes found within the
broader strategy.“ The video circulated of the death of the Jordanian pilot Muadh al Kasabeh,
edited together with sequences of coalition airstrikes to illustrate retributive violence

_ theologically justified by gisas, is a notable example. Scores of similar messaging can be
found on the Internet, employing highly emotive terminology referencing persecution,
oppression, injustice, and sexual violence.

In many cases, militant groups operating on the ground have referenced this themselves. An
Australian foreign fighter with Islamic State featured in a video explaining the frame of mind
that led him to migrate — or make hijrah — to Syria. In a video specifically aimed at Western and
English-speaking Muslims, he said:

“What am I doing? I have a good life here [in Australia]. I have a good job. I have an _
income. I have a car. I have a house. What sacrifice have I done for the sake of Allah? I
can't think of anything. All these nights we sleep comfortably [in the West], I thought
about the people overseas and in the Muslim lands who are suffering, and this is when
my journey really started beginning.”

This passage touches upon a number of common themes that are noticeable among all of the
British fighters in our sample prior to their departure for Syria. The pains of inaction suffered by
a particular fighter typically consist of three constituent components, or frames, which drive their
radicalisation and desire to mobilise - moral outrage (diagnostic), frustration with the inadequacy
of non-violent activism (prognostic), and a belief in the need for decisive action to defend the
ummah (motivational rationale). Fighters tend to pass through all these emotional phases before
feeling compelled to act — in this case, by joining militant groups in Syria.”

Moral outrage

“! Hegghammer, T., ‘Syria’s Foreign Fighters’, Foreign Policy, December 9", 2013, last accessed on August 26°,
2015 at http://foreignpolicy.com/2013/12/09/syrias-foreign-fighters/
2 See Hegghammer (2010/2011)
“3 From as early as 2012, Saudi cleric Sheikh Mohammed al-Arifi, began issuing calls to jihad, particular to the
West. See “Isis: Meet the cleric ‘encouraging British Muslims’ to fight jihad”, Channel 4 News, YouTube, June 26"
2014, last accessed August 26", 2015 at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qnpfsr9p7n4 &feature=youtu.be
“ Winter (2015), p. 25
* ‘Healing of the believers’ chests”, al-Furqan Foundation, February 32015
46 «Stories from the land of the living: the story of Abu Khalid al-Cambodi from Australia," Al-Hayat Media, 21
April 2015 ;
7 See Appendix; Figure

12

000200

000103
