s.19(1)

Media Outlet
Telephone
Call Date
Status
Subject

Questions

Response

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Uactualité

 

08/05/2017 8:00 PM
Completed
Coitit des inondations

Le journaliste avait contacté Environnement Canada.

Le journaliste a des questions au sujet de cette page web :

 

Q1. « Cott par habitant », est-ce le codit par habitant affecté ou par tous
les canadiens affectés ou non?

Q2. Dans les tableaux a la toute fin, il y a une mention : Inondation pour
laquelle un paiement final n'a pas encore été fait. Ainsi, le chiffre indique
les paiements jusqu'ici et/ou les paiements estimatifs a venir. Certain de
ces événemenits ont eu lieu en 1991, pourquoi les données ne sont-elles
pas disponibles?

Le journaliste a été avisé par téléphone que la page a laquelle il faisait
référence datait de 2013. Il a été redirigé 4 la base de données
canadienne sur les désastres pour des informations 4 jour. Le cot par
habitant de la province a été confirmé.

 

ITWorldCanada
©)

    
 

 

09/05/2017 12:05 PM
09/05/2017 5:00 PM
Referred to MO

Government and cybersecurity

 

I'm the: of ITWorldCanada.com, now contributing writer to
the site on cyber security.

 

i Travis Reese, president of security provider
FireEye about a number of topics including whether the Canadian
government is doing enough to strengthen cyber security here. I'd like
to get comment from the government

Among the things he said

'™Your government is further behind other governments around the
world. It seems to me that you need to be doing a better job in terms of
bringing in cyber security education and awareness to make sure we're
involving the workforce. I think the government's got to make some
additional investments and think about creating the right level of cyber
visibility, victim notification programs, how to get the public-private
interaction working well. You're just starting to get serious, where you’re
going to see disclosure laws coming into place - the changes I think that
have evolved in other countries years ago [are] starting to take place,
based on some of the legislation, regulation and things the government
is starting to do here.”

He also said that the federal government has to do a better job in
sharing threat information it has with the private sector

"There’s much more formal public-private communications [in other
countries],,, there’s an evolution I think [Canada] needs to go through
where the government needs to get good visibility on to internet activity
from threat actors, and then create a public/private sharing mechanism
in a way that makes sure they’re getting the private community to
disclose the problems that are occurring so people can’t put their head in
the sand."

4
000175
