Document Released Under the Access to

Ertan Serr AN OMS ono

~ de la Loi sur f'accés a l'information

MEETINGS WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS

OFFICIAL PUBLIC ENGAGEMENTS WITH GOVERNMENT

Leader of Her Majesty's Oppesition, Rt Hon Ed Miliband (March 2015)
Shiraz Maher and Peter Neumann advised the Leader of Her Majesty's Opposition, Rt
Hon Ed Miliband, about policy and intervention | options relating to the Syrian

‘ conflict

White House Summit (February 2015)
Peter Neumann participated in the White House Summit on Countering Violent
Extremism and gave a speech on the topic of foreign fighters in Syria.

Munich Security Conference (January 2015)
Peter Neumann participated in the Munch Security Conference where ICSR released

updated figures for the number of foreign fighters believed to be in Syria.

Briefing Norwegian Prime Minister (January 2015)
Peter Neumann was part of an academic delegation which advised the Norwegian

‘Prime Minister about the threat of returning fighters from the Syrian conflict.

Swedish Democrats (January 2015)
Shiraz Maher advised the Swedish Democrats about passing legislation to deal with

the threat from foreign fighters.

10 Downing Street Policy unit (numerous meetings, September 2014 - Present)
Both Peter Neumann and Shiraz Maher have repeatedly been invited to 10 Downing
Street to advice the Prime Minister’s policy unit on security and counter-terrorism
measures relating to the Syrian conflict.

Deputy Prime Minister's Policy Unit (numerous meetings, September 2014 -

Present)
Shiraz Maher has repeatedly consulted with the Deputy Prime Minister's policy unit

to discuss the forthcoming counter;terrorism Bill in parliament.

Shadow Cabinet (numerous meetings, September 2014 - Present)

Peter Neumann has repeatedly met with the shadow cabinet to discuss aspects of
the proposed counter-terrorism Bill, and has also advised on security issues relating
to the rise of jihadist groups in Syria/Iraq.

PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEES

Intelligence and Security Committee (November 2014) .
Peter Neumann gave oral evidence to the Intelligence and Security Committee in
parliament regarding returnees from the Syrian conflict. .

House of Commons Defence Committee (October 2014)
Shiraz Maher was invited to give evidence to the Defence Affairs Committee

regarding foreign fighters in Syria.

House of Commons Home Affairs Committee (January 2014)
Shiraz Maher gave oral evidence given to the UK Home Affairs Committee on the

000053
000054
