Document Released Under the Access to

Infggaatiel it Fee bye BROS! i ies auc AR ygrtu
dedication Herr ecouan Gué en vertu
dela Loi sur l'accés a l'information

social media profiles of Western citizens or residents who have gone to Syria and Iraq to join
Sunni militant groups, mainly Jabhat al Nusra and, especially, the Islamic State. In addition, we
have communicated with nearly 100 active fighters — in some cases repeatedly and over the
course of several months — and carried out fieldwork in the Turkish region from where most of
them enter Syria.

The use of Palantir, a powerful analytics platform, enabled us to make sense of this data and
generate a small sample of 10 male British fighters for whom we possess sufficient online data
for the period before their departure in order to understand their personal trajectories of
radicalisation and recruitment. It is those fighters whose Tweets; comments, and Facebook
comments will feature prominently in the main part of this report.

Findings .
What we found was new in some respects — and not so new in others:

e THE PAINS OF INACTION: One of the novelties is the impact of massive amounts of.
conflict-related, often highly emotional, content that wannabe fighters are now
exposed to. As extremists have populated mainstream platforms, especially Twitter, it
is no longer possible — or necessary — to separate between ‘moderate’, radical and
extremist sources. For many of the Westem fighters, the sustained (and cumulative)
effect seems to have been an overwhelming feeling of guilt — an emotional pain based
on the stark contrast between one’s own comfort and the enormous suffering and
injustices experienced by one’s ‘brothers and sisters’ in Syria.

© FIGHTING COMMUNITIES: Another new phenomenon is the direct virtual contact
between wannabes and active fighters on the frontlines. In contrast to previous
conflicts, supporters are no longer limited to watching videos and reading statements
but can interact with fighters in real time through platforms like Facebook, Ask.fm,
Twitter, and private messaging applications. This means that fighters and wannabes
can form virtual social communities, build trust and commitment, and — especially
where wannabes and active fighters knew each other previously — create a powerful
sense of moral and personal obligation to join the fight.

¢ ONAND OFFLINE: What’s not new is the interplay between on- and offline
interactions which has occurred in a majority of the cases we have examined. The
internet may help to facilitate contacts and provide inspiration, but people’s actual
decision to go and their subsequent transfer into Syria tends to be preceded by a
significant amount of face to face interaction. This is important for the wannabe
fighters who require strong, personal bonds to become involved in ‘high risk activism,
but it is equally important for the militant groups who want applicants to provide
‘references’, also known as tazkya.

Structure

000008

000010
