Document Released Under the Access to

Inf@ncatinant RelexsediUirdeti thitiécans/totu

de lefaxsnatiod Antd Di¢intantdivutgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés & l'information

There has been widespread revulsion over the manner, shape, and form of President Bashar al-
Assad’s attempts to suppress the Syrian uprising. This has permeated all sections of society, from
individual actors, to human rights organisations up to the official pronouncements of Western
governments. Among potential foreign fighters this has been coupled potently with a sense of
personal obligation, responsibility, and guilt. Ali Kalantar was an 18-year-old student from
Coventry who travelled to Syria in March 2014 in order to join Islamic State. Having reposted a

- number of images of the violence and suffering being bestowed upon innocent civilians,“* a few
weeks before his departure, Kalantar posted a nasheed (Islamic song) to Facebook, which
revealed his growing sense of moral outrage at the situation in Syria.*? The nasheed’s lyrics state:

“Qh my Ummah listen carefully because everything looks vague,
Their bombs are thrown over us like poison
And we have no sincere or honest friend,
My son was shot in cold blood with no one to comfort or console me,
Oh my father they stabbed you just as one drinks a sip of water, :
Tuba (a tree of paradise) is your home where there's no misery
' Oh my mother stop crying, your religion is rising up,
I'm asking Allah to end this suffering and send down his soldiers (just as it)
rains.” .

“This is amazing,” Kalantar declared. Feeling a sense of obligation or duty towards the suffering
of other Muslims is an intellectual process that has taken root in some Muslim communities
through identification with an ‘ummah consciousness.’*! This argues that all Muslims are united
through a fraternity of the faithful, owing one another support, loyalty, and allegiance,
particularly in times of turmoil or oppression.

That narrative has resonated especially loudly in the Syrian context. Mehdi Hasan, a foreign
fighter who travelled from Portsmouth to join Islamic State, explained his reasons for going by
referencing the use of sexual violence against those held prisoner by President Assad’s forces.
“There is a prison in Halab [Aleppo] with 300 female prisoners who are raped daily,” he

_ explained. “Some are pregnant and many have given birth. There are many of these prisons
scattered over Syria. This is one small reason.””” By 2015, such pronouncements would be met
with incredulity given the Islamic State’s systematic use of rape and sexual slavery as a standard
practice and tool of oppression.”? , ;

“8 See Appendix; Figures 2, 3. , .
* Ali Al Farsi, Facebook profile, 19 February 2014. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by
ICSR. :

59 SYRIA - Very Powerful Emotional Nasheed,’ YouTube, 18 December 2012 ©

*” See Roy, O., Globalized Islam: The Search For A New Ummah, London: Hurst & Co, 2004; Kepel, G., Jihad: the
trail of political Islam, London: 1.B. Tauris & Co, 2006

? Abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by ICSR.

* Callimachi, R., ‘ISIS enshrines a theology of rape’, New York Times, August 13", 2015, accessed August 26",
2015, bttp://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/14/world/middleeast/isis-enshrines-a-theology-of-rape.htm!

13
, 000018

000020
