Document Released Under the Access to

deh a Ese ion ee

. dela Loi sur laceés a Linformation

Angered and Bergsjin — leading Magnus Norrell to conclude that recruitment in Sweden
occurred through ties of friendship.'” In discussing Sharia¢Holland, the AIVD concluded that
these movements have created “an environment in which people with similar ideas meet and
develop radical ideas into jihadist ideologies. This group dynamic has led to a rapid
radicalization of many individuals as well as concrete attempts to join the jihad in Syria.”!°

The creation of strong personal bonds is important, for two reasons. Firstly, they facilitate the
first psychological step into “high risk activism” as described by Douglas McAdam.” In
McAdam’s model, the individual first becomes primed through socialisation with friends and
family, making them receptive to new political attitudes. When offline contact with activists
follows, the chances of low-risk activism increases. For the individual to then transition into
high-risk activism, such as mobilisation to fight jihad, ‘biographical availability’ i.e. “the
absence of personal constraints that may increase the costs and risks of movement participation, ©
such as full-time employment, marriage, and family responsibilities” becomes the limiting
factor.'”8 This paper suggests that the intensely existential and emotive nature of the current
conflict affects the extent to which ‘biographical availability’ becomes a limiting factor. Fighters
have shown a willingness to overcome these barriers in unprecedented ways, including uprooting
entire families, including young children and pregnant women, and travelling to Syria.”

The strong personal bonds also create the basis for the potential recruits to receive tazkiyyah.
This is best understood as “reference” or “guarantee” for a prospective fighter that establishes
their sincerity and bona fides. For the individual receiving tazkiyyah it immediately validates
their commitment and standing to a fighting group to whom they would otherwise be entirely
unknown. For the individual providing tazkiyyah it also denotes their trust in, and loyalty
towards, the recipient. Tazkiyyah is provided, therefore, by an actual fighter in support of a
recruit. Militant groups often require these references both as a security requirement to mitigate
against spies, but also to ensure the recruit is devotionally committed.

The underlying element to these dynamics, one that ultimately explains the success or failure of
any relationship, and one that can be illustrated to have been crucial in the recruitment of these
individuals, is trust. Online interactions become limited in this regard; using jihadi web forums
as an example, Hegghammer argues, “the scarcity of non-verbal cues...facilitates deceptive
mimicry which undermines the interpersonal trust for sensitive transactions.” °° While not quite
to the same degree given the more personal nature of the interactions between fighter and recruit,

 

"5 Norrell quote in Gudmondson, P., ‘The Swedish Foreign Fighter Contingent in Syria’, Combating Terrorism
‘ Center Sentinel, September 24% 2013, accessed April 26" 2015, at https://www.ctc.usma.edu/posts/the-swedish-
foreign-fighter-contingent-in-syria
126 “Reisbewegingen jihadistisch terrorisme,” ATVD statement on movements of terrorism, General Intelligence and
Security Service of the Netherlands, September 2013. st. ,
127 McAdam, D., ‘Recruitment to High-Risk Activism: The Case of Freedom Summer,’ American Journal of
Sociology, Volume 92, Issue 1, 1986, pp. 64-90
128 ibid. p. 70
129 Brooks-Pollock, T., ‘Yes we have joined ISIS say missing British family of 12 who fled to Syria’, The
Independent, July 4", 2015, accessed August 26", 2015 http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/yes-we-
have-joined-isis-say-missing-british-family-of-12-who-fled-to-syria-luton-islamic-state-isis-isil-iraq-10365915.htm!
130 Heoshammer, T., ‘Interpersonal Trust on Jihadi Internet Forums’, Norwegian Defence Research Establishment
(FFI) February 19th, 2014, accessed March 19", 2015 http://hegghammer.com/_files/Interpersonal_trust.pdf.

26

000214
000117
