Document Released Under the Access to

InfoweatitshOreiddesu Undelindgtoessetu
deihtdrtiation Act? Daduialit @Walyué en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information

Ce: Partington, Neil; Kubicek, Brett; Martin, Connie
Subject: Re: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London

Hello all, sorry, getting sign-off has been like trying to juggle water. I attach two documents - Cassandra, can
you please let me know what, if anything, further you require (I feel like I'm missing something).

- On 23 February 2015 at 21:57, Lively, Cassandra <Cassandra Lively@ps-sp.gc.ca> wrote:

Hello Shiraz,
It was very nice to meet you via telephone today!

As requested, below you will find the information we’ll need to issue your 2014-15 funds, and address
amending your agreement:

1- An Activity Report covering the period October 1, 2013 — December 31, 2014. This report does not need to
be anything fancy, but must include the following info:

e = Abrief description of events related to the Project during the period covered by the report;

\

e The activities completed and results obtained with respect to the objectives of the project;

e Successes and difficulties encountered by project staff in achieving the objectives of the
Project; and

e A brief description of the activities to be completed after your activity report, and any
expected changes to your project’s work plan. (This is taken from section C1, in Annex C of

your original agreement).

2- On the financial side of things, we need to know if you expect to expend the total Public Safety Canada
contribution to your project for the 2014-15 fiscal year, before March 31, 2015 ($136,561). If you do expect to’
spend all of this money, and may require additional funds to fulfill the objectives of your project, please let us
know and we can explore the possibility of amending your agreement to provide additional funds. Or, if you
will be unable to expend all of the money, we could explore the possibility of moving those funds into the next
fiscal year, and amending your agreement to extend the duration.

3- Either way, we need to update the deliverables table in your original contribution agreement (attached for
easy reference above, and I’ve also attached the previous amendment to your project budget): Our finance folks. ©
will not allow us to release payment if a deliverable has not been completed before the end date listed in Annex
A, in the project work plan. I’ve copied and pasted the table below, if you could propose any necessary changes
in wording and completion dates, that would be great. Please feel free to do this as a reply to this email, and
highlight any changes in a different font color © Brett will get back to us on the restricted briefing paper issues

as soon as possible.

000224
000127
