Document Released Under the Access to
IDosinAbArribaS eer Uader Hb dbees teertu
dafothation AarDecuriaft anaiges en vertu
de fa Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Western audiences in their own, European languages. All of this output is professionally made
and well presented, demonstrating members’ skill at using the latest equipment, editing and
graphic software.’” Al Hayat Media Centre, one of the group’s media production entities, has
released a whole range of media products, including feature length documentaries like Flames of
War, shorter videos highlighting the foreigners’ ‘good works’; interviews with Western fighters;
translations of Arabic language content; and — not least ~ the group’s online magazine Dabiq
which has been published in half a dozen languages.'*

Another striking facet is the group’s dissemination strategy. The Islamic State maintains multiple
accounts on practically every major social media platform, including Facebook, Instagram, and
Ask.fm. On Twitter, it is represented by various parts of the leadership, provincial commands,

and hundreds of individual fighters who maintain their own, personal accounts. In addition, the
group has repeatedly ‘hijacked’ popular hashtags (for example, ‘#WorldCup’) and created
automatized fake accounts to promote its own (for instance, ‘#AllEyesonISIS’). For a brief

period, it even had its own Android app — ~ Dawn of Glad Tidings — through which it sent

_ messages via subscribers’ Twitter accounts.”” The cumulative effect is both practical and
psychological. It enables the Islamic State to swamp the internet, making takedowns more

difficult and less effective, while at the same time paenifying' the group’s message and '
creating the perception of momentum and strength.”! ,

What’s more, the group is conscious that it has multiple audiences who need to be reached and
spoken to differently. Pictures of executions or military victories are used to increase the group’s
visibility and create a sense of shock and terror among non-jihadist audiences, while
sympathizers are additionally: exposed to ‘softer’ messages articulating the idea of an Islamic
utopia. Potential recruits, therefore, will see the group’s excessively violent side but also pictures
of foreign fighters distributing food, adjudicating disputes, manning local police forces, or —
indeed — holding kittens and showing off pots of Nutella.”

Similarly, content and messages ate segmented according to language, often incorporating local
references and featuring * ‘role models’ from the respective countries and/or language groups at
which they are targeted.” This system of customization, along with its capabilities in production
and dissemination, are indicative of the group’s sophistication — resulting in a campaign that, i in
the words of J.M. Berger, ‘would put American social media marketing gurus to shame’.”

Cheerleaders, Disseminators, and Fanboys

 

w” Kingsley ‘Whe is behind’, op. cit.
*® See Olivia Becker, ‘ISIS has a really slick and sophisticated media department’, Vice News, 12 July 2014; ‘New ISIS

Media Company Addresses English, German, and French Speaking Westerners’, MEMAI, 23 June 2014.

1° For a sample of Islamic State related Twitter accounts and activity, see Erin M. Saltman and Charlie Winter,
islamic State: The Changing Face of Modern sihadism (London: Quilliam, 2014), pp. 66-70.

IM Berger, ‘How ISIS Games Twitter’, The Atlantic, 16 June 2014. See also Alessandro Bonzio, ‘ISIS’ use of social
media isn’t surprising: its digital strategy is’, Huffington Post, 15 September 2014.

71 Berger, ‘How ISIS Games’, op. cit.

? Ibid.

” Ibid.

24 Berger, ‘How ISIS Games’, op. cit.

000194

000097
