Document Released Under the Access to

InfdecatientRbledsed Undbrlel Access tor tu
deliickiiation!actEbdclinten diivi@lqueé en vertu
* de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

productions and sophisticated Twitter campaigns.* The impression created is that of a group of
skillful manipulators brainwashing their helpless subjects into becoming supporters of Islamic
State and, ultimately, making their way to Syria. Yet much of the research that members of our
team have conducted points in different directions:

e Anearlier ICSR report uncovered the role of ‘disseminators’ and ‘cheerleaders’ — online
activists who are often Western based and have no formal ties to Islamic State;*

e Twitter campaigns generate less interest than is commonly believed,®

e Online propaganda ¢ alone rarely creates the kind of commitment that turns sympathisers
into actual recruits,’

In short, none of our earlier findings support the notion of top-down recruitment that so often
dominates the news coverage.

Approach

In trying to resolve the contradiction between conventional wisdom and our own, earlier
empirical findings, we took a radically different approach from existing reports on the Islamic
State and social media. Unlike everyone else, the principal focus of our investigation was not the
Islamic State’s online campaign — which we believe has been given an excessive amounts of
coverage — but the recruits themselves,

In other words, we were not so much interested in what Islamic State put out, but — rather — what
the wannabe fighters took in. We wanted to understand how they use the internet, and what parts
of the internet, if any, caused them to join up. In doing so, what we sought to avoid was the kind
of circular logic whereby researchers focus on the Islamic State’s social media campaign, ignore
everything else, and — then — conclude that it must have been the social media campaign that
prompted people to join. ,

The reason we were able to do this is the groundbreaking primary research that ICSR has
conducted on Syrian foreign fighters. Starting in 2012, we have now collected nearly 700 online

“See, for example, Aya Batrawy, ‘ISIS Outpaces Arab Governments in Social Media War’, Associated Press, 21
September 2014; Patrick Kingsley, Who is behind ISIS’s terrifying online propaganda operation?, Guardian, 23 June
2014; Shiv Malik and Sandra Laville, ‘isis in duel with. Twitter and YouTube to spread extremist propaganda’,
Guardian, 24 September 2014; Charlotte Meredith, ‘ISIS YouTube Video’, Huffington Post, 26 June 2014; Shane and
Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying’, op. cit.

5 Joseph Carter, Shiraz Maher, and Peter R. Neumann, #Greenbirds: Measuring Importance and influence in Syrian
Foreign Fighter Networks (London: ICSR, 2014); available at http://icsr.info/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/ICSR-
Report-Greenbirds-Measuring-| ce-and-Infleunce-in-Syrian-Foreign-Fighter-N rks.pdf.

5 Shiraz Maher and Joseph Carter, ‘Analyzing the ISIS Twitter Storm’, Wer on the Rocks, 24 June 2014; available at
b ron .com/201 | mi i rm/.

7 Ali Fisher and Nieg Prucha, ‘ISIS Is winning the Online Jihad Against the West’, Daily Beast, 1 October 2014;
available at 3 il inst-the-

west.html.

 

000190

000093
