pecument Released Under the Access to

as once ith i pees en igttu
ig ument ue on vertu

de ta Loi sur I’ acces a Tinformation

His twitter account is a valuable example of online interactions with actual fighters however,
illustrating the offline interactions that were taking place in the lead up to his departure, which
will be focused on more in the next chapter. His online interaction with fellow members of the
Portsmouth cluster was an inevitable result of their friendship. With Jaman, they range from the
‘banal matters of arranging meeting times at their mosque, debates and disagreement, and
indications of potentially making hijrah.*

© Aseel Muthana

Aseel Muthana, along with his brother Nasser Muthanna, were two fighters from Cardiff who
came to have associations with the Portsmouth cluster. Aseel’s early twitter interactions
demonstrate an interest in foreign fighters months before making hijrah. During the month of
November, Aseel retweeted or interacted with five different foreign fighters, one of which was
his brother Nasser. Four of those fighters originate from the UK while the other, Abu Fulan, was
Danish.®’ In November he reached out to Abu Qa’ qaa, a fighter from the UK, seeking a link to
his Tumblr blog ‘Paladin of Jihad’ which documented his transition from recruit to fighter and
his subsequent experiences in the Levant.** As his tweets show, Aseel was an active twitter
contributor within the milieu he became apart of.®

Understanding the Dynamics

The dynamics within the fighting community that contribute towards the decision to mobilise can
be conceptualised on two levels. The macro level describes the broader effects the new media
ecology on the socialisation of individuals, in this instance recruits interested in becoming

. foreign fighters. The micro level describes the effects that increased accessibility to foreign
fighters has on the recruit’s attitudes towards the conflict and the responsibilities he has towards
his fellow Muslims.

The New Media Ecology

The phrase ‘Web 2.0’ is commonly cited in the literature on online radicalisation and refers to

‘the World Wide Web’s transition during the new millennium into the second generation, a space
that now “encompasses a growing array of interactive communications systems facilitated by a
rapidly expanding set of platforms. "% The period gave birth to the platforms that we recognise
today — “numerous websites, blogs, forums and message boards”*!— while laying the foundation
for the most modem iterations of apps and instant messaging services that have seamlessly

% See Appendix; Figures 14, 15, 16

7 See Appendix; Figures 17, 18

%8 This blog is catalogued in full by the ICSR. See Appendix; Figure 19

® See Appendix; Figures 20, 21

% Amble, J.C., "Combating terrorism in the new media environment", Studies in Conflict and Terrorism 35(5),

2012, p. 339
5! Ducol, B., "Uncovering the French-speaking Jihadisphere: An exploratory analysis", Media, War and Conflict

Vol. 5(1), 2012, p. 51
20

000025
000027
