Document Released Under the Access to
[DiscumbnnReteasec-Undertthe Weegserteertu
dnfdarhation Adi ddiacaientdivaigueé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a information

s.13(1)(a)
s.15(1) - Int'l

¢ A brief description of the activities to be completed after your activity report, and any
expected changes to your project’s work plan. (This is taken from section C1, in Annex C of
your original agreement).

2- On the financial side of things, we need to know if you expect to expend the total Public Safety Canada
contribution to your project for the 2014-15 fiscal year, before March 31, 2015 ($136,561). If you do expect to
spend all of this money, and may require additional funds to fulfill the objectives of your project, please let us
know and we can explore the possibility of amending your agreement to provide additional funds. Or, if you
will be unable to expend all of the money, we could explore the possibility of moving those funds into the next
fiscal year, and amending your agreement to extend the duration.

3- Either way, we need to update the deliverables table in your original contribution agreement (attached for
easy reference above, and I’ve also attached the previous amendment to your project budget). Our finance folks
will not allow us to release payment if a deliverable has not been completed before the end date listed in Annex
A, in the project work plan. I’ve copied and pasted the table below, if you could propose any necessary changes
in wording and completion dates, that would be great. Please feel free to do this as a reply to this email, and
highlight any changes in a different font color © Brett will get back to us on the restricted briefing paper issues
as soon as possible.

Project Description/Work Plan:

s.13(1)(a)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deliverable Clientele Outputs Date 8.15(1) - Int'l
Public Briefing Government 5,000 word paper to be published | 03/14
paper “Western officials, and disseminated by ICSR —
foreign academics, media
fighters/Syria”

Canadian 5,000 word paper produced 06/14

government exclusively for Canadian

officials government
Online resource Government Searchable section of ICSR 07/14
“Foreign officials, website, to be maintained
fighters/Syria” academics, media__| throughout the project’s duration
Research General public, 75,000 word monograph to be 12/14
monograph government published by major academic
“Syrian Militant officials, publisher
Moveme academics, media
Workshops and Government Minimum of half a dozen 2/15
briefings on Syria | officials, meetings with presentation and
in Ottawa, Canada | academics, media . | discussion of key findings
Special journal General public, 20,000 word edited conference 03/15
issue government publication, or special issue of

officials, Democracy and Security

academics, media

2
000048

000049
