Document Released Under the Access to

InBomatieonVtdbletesd Undécingladcess vertu

ddrfotmiation Act Declinénbastingué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'aceés 4 information

practical as well as theological; representing itself as a state with the ability to project power
around the world (through its proxies) is a crucial aspect of justifying its legitimacy.”

Inadequacy of Non-Violent Activism

Feelings of anger and outrage regarding the humanitarian crisis in Syria have been fuelled by the -
supposed indifference of the international community.™ This can be thought of as ‘radicalisation
by omission,’ where the expectation of international assistance has failed to materialise.™

Ifthekar Jaman was dismayed by what he considered a derogation of duty from Muslim rulers —
towards the Muslims of Syria. “Why haven’t the Saudi government sent their armies to support
the Syrians?” he asked. “Why are the Saudi government quietly on the side while the ummah is
suffering?”® Their apparent indifference towards the Syrians led him to conclude, “the Saudi
government are the worst examples.”*

In this case individual agents feel a greater sense of personal responsibility and obligation to take
matters into their own hands, engaging in a form of vigilante militarism. “Sorry to say, but
sending cereal does not stop this brutality,” wrote Mehdi Hasan shortly after arriving in Syria.
“A bullet to the head is far more effective.” Ifthekar Jaman was more sober in his assessment,
recognising the virtue of charity — albeit in limited form. “Ya ikhwaani [oh brothers], give
charity as much as you can,” he urged his twitter followers. “But don’t think you’ve done your
duty. Charity doesn’t prevent a tank, you do.”

The corollary is clear - while Muslims can give to charity, they should not consider this as
sufficient to discharge their obligations towards the Syrian people. Their duties go further
because the current situation is unbearable and the status quo can neither reverse nor adequately
address the humanitarian suffering. Non-violent activism is therefore out-dated and needs to be
replaced with a more direct form of confrontation.

Need for Effective Action

Primed with sufficient outrage but disillusioned with the prevailing political climate, radicalised
individuals conclude that the only solution available to them is to become fighters. This not only
makes a tangible and practical change to the problem, as they perceive it, but is also a decision

6 Winter, C., ‘How the Islamic State makes sure you pay attention to it’, War on the Rocks, February 12", 2015,
accessed August 26", 2015, http://warontherocks.com/2015/02/how-the-islamic-state-makes-sure-you-pay-attention-
to-it/ . .
& «The World’s pitiful response to Syria’s refugee crisis’, Amnesty International, December 5“, 2014, last accessed
August 26", 2015 https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/news/2014/ 12/world-s-pitiful-response-syria-s-refugee-crisis/
© The opposite might be thought of as ‘radicalisation by commission,’ that is, for example, radicalisation caused by
our participation in the Iraq war.
. Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 6 February 2013

Ibid. .
8 Abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014
® Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 17 July 2013; See Appendix; Figure 4

oe )
000020

000022
