Document Released Under the Access to
DécumedntiRatdasdd Uindenthbvabpesstovertu
thfoniation Adhé Becdniianbdivalgot an vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

é

The de facto leader of the Portsmouth group, twenty-three year old Ifthekar Jaman, repeatedly
expressed his anger at the scale and urgency of the humanitarian crisis unfolding in the Levant.
Jaman also wrote about how «children were suffering” and of a “genocide” being conducted
against the Muslims of Syria. “May Allah make it easy for all the o; oppressed Muslims,” he
wrote weeks before his departure. “May Allah bring a saviour soon.””° The group had grown
increasingly frustrated with local imams who they felt were both unable and unqualified to
adequately understand the situation in Syria. They took to the Internet to find alternative answers
and listen to speeches from the Saudi cleric Mohammed al-Arifi, among others. Again, Arifi’s
invectives are laden with highly emotive references to issues of honour, masculinity, and
personal duty. The pronouncements drive a sense of righteous obligation borne of moral outrage:

“No Muslim should accept to see a dear Muslim woman who was brought up on the
Quran and Hijab being grappled and forcefully taken to the bedroom of a brutal tyrant.
Which man can sleep or have his tears drop or feel a peace of mind while he hears of
such circumstances befalling our Brothers and Sisters?””” .

Recruits ultimately begin to feel guilty about the relative comfort and security of their lives in
Western society when contrasted against the suffering of Muslims abroad. In July 2013 another
British fighter from Hounslow, Ismail Jabber, wrote a lengthy post on Facebook that focused on
the plight of the ummah. He wrote that he was in a “Bilad ash-Sham [land of Syria] state of
mind,” while chastising Muslims in the West for letting their material comforts distract them
from the suffering of the Syrian people.” In a subsequent message, Jabbar internalises this guilt
and argues that he feels like a “coward” for “sleeping cosy” while Muslim women are subject to
sexual violence around the world.*? Although this was still quite some time before Jabber finally
migrated to Syria, he did embark on a more activist phase at this point, raising funds for
humanitarian purposes. 6

Although the process of Jabbar’s radicalisation was as principally driven by the conflict in Syria,
his sense of moral outrage and duty was not limited to events there. His horizons were global,
expanding to encompass any number of different scenarios where Mustims are believed to be
under attack. “I’m done with everyone and everything,” he wrote.*! A similarly global outlook is
evident in the online expressions of Mehdi Hasan and Ifthekar Jaman, along with another British
fighter, Aseel Muthana, from Cardiff. All expressed their concern at Muslim suffering in Gaza,
Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, Afghanistan, Kashmir, and Guantanamo Bay. “While your [sic] in bed,
reflect on those tortured in Guantanamo and OUR brothers and sisters in OUR lands being raped
and killed,” Muthana wrote.” That it considers itself a protective warden of the global ummah is

* Tfthekar Jaman Skype interview with Shiraz Maher, senior research fellow at ICSR (interview governed by
research ethics application: REP (WSG)/13/14-10)
58 «, Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 19 February 2013. Full profile archived in full.
56 Ithekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 22 February 2013. Full profile archived in full.
57 arifi, M., ‘Syria we will fight with you,’ YouTube, posted March 20 2012, last accessed on August 26", 2015 at
https: iforw. youtube.com/watch?v=oiY WEA yF W3E
;, Waran Aki'law, Facebook, July 2013. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by ICSR.
* Waran Aki’law, Facebook, August 2", 2013
© Waran Aki’ law, Facebook, 2 August 2013
$1 Thid., (2013)
® Abu Faris (@abufarriss), Twitter, November 2013

14

000202

000105
