Document Released Under the Access to

nigenAlinn Reléddea neat Ha keuesn ert
enfarhtitist At? Boeunidatercigue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

trust reaches a threshold without face-to-face interactions. Merari advances the argument,
claiming that trust precipitates violence. The decision to commit an extreme act of violence, for
example a suicide bombing, is a result of the desire to gain social credibility within the group.'?!
Love for both the group and the cause, in this case the protection of the ummah, explains the
desire and decision to violently mobilise.

Using evidence procured through social media analysis and news coverage, three examples stand
out as illustrating the importance of offline contacts — the Coventry Cluster, the Portsmouth and
Manchester Network, and the West London Cluster.

The Data
Overview of British Fighters

Before illustrating two examples of how clusters work in facilitating travel, a brief glance at the
total number of British fighters collected provides some inferences that support the thesis and
while countering the ‘internet causality’ explanation. Of the 123 British fighters in the database
for whom information could be procured, fifty-seven fighters travelled with or knew at least one
other fighter before mobilising. This supports the thesis in two ways. First is the obvious case
that evidence of individuals travelling in group’s supports the offline interaction thesis. Second,
that information of the travel plans for the other sixty-six could not be procured through open
source methods suggests that they were not avid users of social media, thus negating the idea that
online interactions play such a crucial role. Two examples will now be illustrated to show how ~
offline interactions can influence mobilisation.

The Coventry Cluster — ,

The offline behaviour of Ali Kalantar, a foreign fighter from Coventry, chimes with the driving
thesis. In chapter one, we described the extent to which Ali Kalanta’s desire and decision to
mobilise were affected by his interactions with online propaganda. What appears to have been a
crucial element in his decision to mobilise, however, was his long-term friendship with two
friends from home, Rashed Amani and Mohammed Hadi, who travelled with him. Interactions
with a radical imam at a local mosque are also cited as potential influences by his family, who
perceived changes in Kalantar’s behaviour as originating from this contact.

Reports suggest that Kalantar asked to borrow his passport from his parents in order to fill out
university related documents, while asking to borrow £1000 from his brother in order to pay for
a new laptop.'? This indicates that Kalantar was not considered a risk by his loved ones, who:

 

131 See Merari, A., ‘Social, organizational and psychological factors in suicide terrorism,’ in Bjorgo, T. ed., Root
Causes of Terrorism: Myths, Realities and Ways Forward, Oxford, Routledge, 2005.
132 Taher, A., et al., ‘British jihadist who married one of the 16-year-old Manchester ‘terror twins’ is ‘killed fighting

for ISIS in Iraq’, Mail Online, December 6" 2014, accessed April 26" 2015, at
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-286352 1/British-; jihadist-married-one- 16-year-old- |-Manchester-terror-

twins-Syria-killed-fighting-ISIS-Iraq.himl .
27

000215

000118
