, Document Released Under the Access to

Inbecuist Relédesaumaat dkuasennyertu
dintorknitian Azer Booutiat aiviigne en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés & Finformation
o Finding #8: “For counter-radical messages to be effective they need to be much more frequently and
consistently produced, as is the case with radical material...in addition, counter-radical messages must
involve local, trust-worthy, moderate authorities.”

Counter Messaging:
- Counter messaging can take a number of forms and have varying levels of success, depending on strategic
__ approach and execution.
- Counter messaging must also be built upon a foundation of effective best practices and collected information
(see above and below):
- Counterspéech (Susan Benesch and Derek Ruths: Considerations for Successful Counterspeech )

o Counterspeech, defined as a response that takes issue with hateful, harmful or extremist content, has
proven in some contexts to be useful in changing immediate online behavior of hateful users on Twitter.

©. This is particularly true in one-on-one engagements in which the engager used an empathetic/kind tone,
images and humour. Identifying the speech as hateful, but not the user. Many-to-many initiatives can
also have a positive impact, hijacking hateful/dangerous hashtags, but not necessarily changing the
attitudes of the hateful users.

o Other approaches, such as one-to-many and many-to-one counterspeech do not seem to result in the
same constructive impact.

- Evaluating Methods to Diminish Expressions of Hatred and Extremism Online (Susan.Benesch)
oO The use of an automated scraping technology to pull down hateful/dangerous speech and
_ counterspeech from Twitter, via keywords and hashtags.

© Goal was to understand what sort of counterspeech is effective against hateful/dangerous speech across
different contexts. ,

o The scraping tool used on Twitter can be applied on that platform to pull down Islamic State and
terrorist group content in order to both understanding current messaging
techniques/patterns/narratives and provide information of use to quickly developing
counternarratives/counter messaging for Twitter

o Similar technology can be leveraged against other platforms with an API and which allow the
governments and their partners to do so.

© Such automated processes should be improved to help enhance the collection and identification abilities
around hate/dangerous speech and counterspeech.

- (Sand the Jihadist Information Highway: Projecting influence and Religious Identity via Telegram (Nico Prucha,
Perspectives on Terrorism)

© Telegram the primary hub for dispatching new content since early 2016

o 1S presents itself, in Arabic, as an Arab movement fighting for independence, composed of modern-day
islamic warriors/defenders of Sunni communities. Foreign fighters convey their religious reasons for
joining to individuals in their home countries. ‘

o The West has employed half-hearted counter-narratives that usually neither touch upon the Arabic
propaganda content, nor the messages conveyed by non-Arab foreign fighters, who explain their
reasons for joining the cause in their own words.

© Telegram is now the main hub for [S to share content from other platforms and as a staging ground to
share content te/coordinate “media raids” on other platforms. Twitter and Facebook accounts are
published on Telegram, content from which is brought into Telegram: incite and recruit. new members.
(Note: Question becomes how to ensure potential members do not follow into the depths of IS
Telegram accounts, what role for messaging in countering this progression?) _

© Counter narratives need to engage religious discourses, as religion is one of the central elements in 1S’

” efforts to recruit and radicalize. There is a need to deconstruct the theology of violence inherent in
jihadi communications and practice. '
- Studying IS!S-related Activities on Telegram (Derek Ruths)

o Ruths studied the early stage adoption of the Telegram platform by the Islamic State by scraping,
categorizing and analyzing content from English language |S-related accounts .

o While not comprehensive, the study highlights a few things:

4
000004

000006
