Document ahaa pndet the Access to

pea RGF Huis WIG. gp vertu
jon a aun en vertu

- de la Loi sur l'accés a linformation

Our findings go against conventional wisdom. Based on our research, it was peers — —not,
propaganda — that convinced the British fighters in our sample to go to Syria. The social media
campaigns of militant groups like Islamic State may have been important but not decisive.

This does not mean that the internet didn’t matter. Open-source, widely accessible content
contributed to people’s sense of guilt and helplessness. Virtual contacts with active fighters made
them have a stake and, in many cases, created a strong sense of social obligation. Ultimately,
however, it wasn’t the online environment as such — but the extent to which it created peer to
peer contacts — that facilitated the decision to go.

The report begins with a chapter contrasting the Islamic State’s social media campaign with the
ways in which British foreign fighters have actually used online communications. This is
followed by three small chapters describing the key dynamics and processes that we believe are
significant: the first deals with the ‘pains of action’ caused by the prolonged exposure to, and
involvement with, conflict related content; the second looks at ‘fighting communities’ involving
wannabe and actual fighters; and, finally, we examine the back and forth between on- and offline
communications that tends to precede, and facilitate, the decision to go to Syria.

We are confident that our report makes an important contribution to the fast evolving field of
research on online radicalisation. It builds on, and develops, long-established notions like Doug
McAdam’s ‘high risk activism’® and Marc Sageman’s ‘sense of moral outrage’,” while rejecting
the increasingly popular idea that it is the internet — and the internet alone — that radicalizes :
people. To paraphrase Mark Juergensmeyer, the internet is not the problem, but aspects of it may
well be problematic.’°

 

® Doug McAdam, ‘Recruitment to High-Risk Activism: The Case of Freedom Summer’, American Journal of

, Sociology, 92(1) (1986), pp. 64-90.
Marc Sageman, Leaderless Jihad: Terror Networks in the Twenty-First Century (Philadelphia, PA: University of

Pennsylvania Press, 2008), pp. 73-6.
2° See Mark Juergensmeyer, ‘Religion as a Cause of Terrorism’ in Louise Richardson (ed.}, The Reots of Terrorism

(London and New York: Routledge, 2006), pp. 133-144:

000192

000095
