Document Released Under the Access to

InfogeatienrRoiea ed Und Gulu yg rtu
darifohRetibh Aa odelinGHtaniigué en vertu
de la Loi sur Paceés 2 l'information

' Islamic State vs. Wannabe Fighters

The social media campaigns of jihadist groups in the Syrian/Iraqi conflict are extensive — but are
they also effective? Many experts and commentators believe that — based on size and
sophistication alone — they must be good at recruiting people. They describe in glowing terms
Islamic State’s ‘really effective brand strategy’,'! its ‘planning and professionalism’,’” the

‘cinematic quality’ of its videos,” and how the group ‘is using every contemporary mode of
messaging to recruit fighters’. ‘4 The assumption is that online exposure — and online exposure
alone — makes people join.

The only problem: there is no evidence to support this claim; no information on how wannabe
fighters are actually using the internet; and no discussion of what other influences may have
caused them to go to Syria.

This chapter offers two perspectives on jihadist internet use in the Syrian/Iraqi conflict. One is
top-down: the Islamic State’s online campaign which — we are constantly told — is successful at
recruiting foreign fighters. The other is bottom up: the use of the intemet by fighters and
wannabe fighters themselves. What emerges is a stark contrast: while the Islamic State’s social
media campaign is indeed massive and sophisticated, it is not as top down and centrally
coordinated as often alleged, nor does most of it impact on wannabe foreign fighters during the
process of joining up.

How the Islamic State Uses the Internet

The purpose of the Islamic State’s social media campaign is to intimidate and to inspire. 15
Regarding intimidation, the Islamic State has proven to be powerful and innovative, be it by
communicating threats, demoralizing Western audiences, or by ‘sowing terror, disunion, and
defection’ among its enemies. There is evidence, for example, that the group’s military offensive
in the summer of 2014 was coordinated with its social media efforts, forcing populations to flee
their villages and compelling Iraqi soldiers to abandon their positions out of fear they might be
caught, tortured and executed. !®

Less clear is the extent to which the Islamic State’s social media campaign has succeeded at

making people join. This is not for lack of trying. The Islamic State produces more
‘inspirational’ output than other jihadist groups and has been the only one to consistently target

u «2 52M Thielman, ‘ISIS’ Sinister Media Strategy’, AdWeek, 10 September 2014.

*, Kingsley, ‘Who Is Behind’, op. cit.

** Spencer Ackerman, ‘ISIS Online Propaganda Outpacing U.S. Counter-efforts, Ex-Officials Warn’, Guardian, 22
September 2014.
“ «shane and Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying’, op. cit.

+ Alessandro Bonzio, ‘ISIS’ use of social media isn’t surprising: its digital strategy is’, Huffington Post, 15 September

2014.
*® Emerson Brooking, ‘The ISIS Propaganda Machine Is Horrifying and Effective: How Does It Work?, Defense in

Depth, Council on Foreign Relations, 31 December 2014; available at

 

how-does-it-work/. Also George Packer, ‘A Friend Flees the Horror of ISIS’, The New Yorker, 6 August 2014.

000010

000012
