-$.19(1)

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Response

(Follow-up) Questions

(Follow-up) Call Date

(Follow-up) Response

CLOSED:

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone

E-mail Address

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

many Canadians are currently in Kurdistan as part of the war against
ISIS. Even better would be if you know the divide between Syria and
Iraq.

I spoke to a graduate student at Laval University who is studying this
issue, and he estimates that there are about 40 Canadians (that's for
both Syria and Iraq). I was just wondering if I could get the
government's estimate of the number. I spoke to Global Affairs and they
directed me to you.

I'm not working on a tight deadline, but if I could get an estimate before
the end of the week that would be great.

 

CBC

  

office: cel

   

oo |||. @cbc.ca
08/05/2017 11:40 AM

    

08/05/2017 5:00 PM
Consulting
Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called
Palantir Technologies. Do you know If Public Safety has any
contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their
software?

The Palantir software is not used at Public, Safety, nor is it a
part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear
to list using Palantir software as part of their work.

1. https://www.linkedi m/inf
2. https://www. linkedin.com/in/carl-sharpe-b2658363,

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that
Palantir software is, in fact, used — but I want to be sure.

Apologies for not sending this along with my initial request. I
only came across it yesterday.

Second follow-up (2017-05-10 at 3:30 pm)
Understood. But why then would people who say they
worked at Public Safety list Palantir software under a
description of their job duties?

10/05/2017 10:35 AM

As mentioned in our previous response, Palantir software is
not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved
software list. We do not have at this time, nor have
previously had, a contract with Palantir.

 

99.1 FM CKXS | Your Music Variety

   

ckxsfm.com

 

000212
