Document Released Under the Access to

nbuantenReeadee une? tne wkeuseio”ertu
Hird aaN AGT? tice het UIVAILUS en vertu
de la Loi sur !'accés a l'information

From: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Sent: Saturday, January 16, 2016 4:20 PM

To: Goodyear, Lori (PS/SP)

Subject: oe FW: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Attachments: ICSR Draft Final Report.docx; PS-SP-#1730990-1-KPCP - List of Events.DOCX; PS-SP-#

1308963-4A-KPCP - Project Highlights.DOCX; PS-SP-#1731017-v1-
KPCP_Working_Groups.-_Table_of_Meetings.DOCX

FYI

 

From: Giroux2, Denis (PS/SP)

Sent: Friday, January 15, 2016 3:32 PM

To: McLaughlin, Julie (PS/SP) ,

Ce: Assadi2, Bahman (PS/SP); Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Martin, Connie (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Hi Julie,

Here is some information related to that request, which should respond to the bulk of your questions. In the next few
days, Brett may be bringing new comments and will provide the remainder of the requested information.

So, I’ve attached the Kanishka Highlights document (of which you had an earlier version), which should respond to items
1A to 1G; a list of all Kanishka events (supplement for item 1G); and another attachment that contains the info you need

for item 2.
For item 1H (on the Community of Science and Practice):

The Kanishka Project aims to increase the knowledge base about terrorism and counter-terrorism, but goes
beyond simply studying terrorism, as many of the studies are developing and testing new approaches to support
more effective policies, tools and resources for law enforcement and people on the front lines.

The initiative has aimed to rapidly and significantly expand research capacity outside government, ensure that
focus is on relevant questions, and make the results available for those who need them, in the right form and at
the right time. This capacity-building emphasis was designed to generate important new knowledge in the short
term, and create a sufficiently strong core and momentum for ongoing, tong-term improvement.

Prior to the Kanishka Project, a fundamental problem was that there were few scholars focusing on relevant
questions, those involved were largely isolated fromm one another, and the research was of limited interest to
practitioners. There was no community of science for researchers focusing on counter-terrorism relevant to the
Canadian context. To improve the knowledge base in support of more effective counter-terrorism, however, a
community of practice is also important, reflecting the parallel idea that there needs to be a critical mass of
perspectives from policy, program and civil society circles to share lessons and challenge assumptions.

For item | (Syria Conflict}, there are several deliverables. We have a draft of the final report as well; it should be
published late this month or sometime next month. As part of this study they have also published:
h :

 

‘000069

000070
