Document Released Under the Access to

Iniecontiot Relddesa unast thy saeanuertu
“dinfarbeitteit Ager Beeuritat aieuigae en vertu
de la Loi sur Faceés a l'information

This section looks to further the work of Brachman and Levine with regard the relationship
between jihadist ideologues and potential radicals by arguing that the foreign fighter represents
the progression of a dynamic they first identified in 2011.1’ Consider this quote from their 2011
article ‘You Too Can Be Awlaki’:

Youth who are seeking role models need someone who is easier to emulate, a figure that
they can become without too much work or thought, and who makes them feel as if they
are producing something meaningful and relevant!

While capturing the essence of the recruit’s psychology, the quote is not related to foreign
fighters but the relationship between online jihadist activists, a nuanced and important difference.
Originally, the interactions between jihadist ideologues and recruits were of a style befitting that
of producer and consumer - the ‘heavy-weight’ ideologues such as Abdullah Azzam and Abu
Muhammed al-Magdisi produced literature and speeches that were disseminated around the
world for potential jihadists to read and listen to. The ideologues thus relied on interlocutors to
connect them with the their global audience. The Committee for Advice and Reform, for
example, was Osama Bin Laden’s pressure grou; up based in London that printed and provided
materials to would-be jihadists across the UK.'"? Given the decentralised nature of the
transnational jihadist network, especially with the emergence of Al Qaeda, the culture of contact
and accessibility to the most influential ideologues was non-existent.

The advent of this interface has ‘had a profound effect on the relationship between the ideologue
and the potential jihadist and paved the way for the creation of the ‘Celebrity Shaykh.”!!° The
original ideologues were learned scholars with high levels of legitimacy but low levels of
accessibility. That is not to say that the advent of information technologies affected their
influence - far from it.'!! However, the face of jihadism did begin to change. Younger, more -

’ technologically savvy preachers were able to substitute theological and scholarly depth with
charisma and translatability. Soon, potential jihadists could follow these ideologues online,
watch and read their material and seek to emulate them in a way not previously possible.’ 13 They
could also interact with fellow enthusiasts in password-protected forums and chat-rooms, whose
influence on radicalisation has been well established in the literature.!!

The most prominent example of this trend us Anwar al-Awlaki, arguably the most influential
English language propagandist of his generation.’ Brachman and Levine note a number of

 

‘7 Brachman, J.M., Levine, A.N., “You Too Can Be Awlaki!’, The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, Vol. 35, No. 1,
Winter 2011, pp. 25-46 ;
°8 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 30
1 See Curtis, M., Secret Affairs: Britain’s Collusion with Radical Islam, London: Serpent's Tail, 2012.
100 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 29
m Magdisi, Abu Bak Naji, Osama Bin Laden and Abdullah Azzam remain heavily cited by all Sunni insurgent

groups, regardless of their allegiances.
2 See Meleagrou-Hitchens, A., ‘As American as Apple Pie: How Anwar al-Awlaki became the Face of Western

Jibad’, ICSR: London, 2011
13 See Stevens, T., & Neumann, P., ‘Countering Online Radicalisation: A Strategy for Action,’ ICSR: London,

2009
14 Roshonora Choudhary, for example, sentenced to life in prison for the attempted murder of Steven Pimms MP
for his vote in favour of the Iraq war, cited the lectures of Awlaki as a direct influence in her interviews with police.

23

000211

000114
