s.13(1)(a)

Document Released Under the Access to

Psalter See ate

de rider AGE? DAGIHIGHTaWalyué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a information

If current trends continue, Norway will receive 120,000 refugees by the end of 2016. The
volume of arrivals has placed significant strain on the government trying to handle the logistics
of processing, transporting, housing and feeding these asylum seekers. Many of the steps taken -
up to now (such as housing asylum seekers in off-season tourist hotels) are understood to only
provide a short-term solution. Parties on both sides of the aisle agree that in the long term, a
different, more sustainable solution has to be found.
" 8.13(1)(a)

 

On Monday, 2015-11-16, 64 asylum seekers crossed the border in Storskog, East Finnmark;

there have been as many as 197 persons arriving per day. As of last week, more than 50% of the |
asylum seekers were coming from Afghianistan, followed by arrivals from Syria, Egypt and
Somalia. :

The government introduced a new bill last week (OSLO148 refers), which has had its first
reading on Monday, 2015-11-16 and second reading on Thursday, 2015-11-19. The bill aims to
streamline the deportation of asylum claimants with work / study / residence visas in Russia. At
the moment, these arrivals undergo the complete screening and evaluation pracess before they
are deemed ineligible. Under the new law, these asylum seekers would be turned around
straight at the border. The Minister stated that if these Afghan asylum seekers cannot be

returned to Russia, they will be sent to Afghanistan.
$.13(1)(a)

 

cond, Norway will remove the requirement
the return country to prove that it has the capability to process refugee applications in an
orderly fashion. This has been one of the roadblocks for returning asylum seekers to Russia.
Third, the government is proposing detaining failed asylum seekers before deportation. All of
the above provisions have majority support in the Parliament with a two year sunset clause.

The Ministry of Justice and Public Safety has taken the fead role in handling the refugee crisis.
The department has had very good cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in deporting
ineligible asylum seekers to Afghanistan and Pakistan. In regards to returns to other countries,

this has been a very politically sensitive topic in Norway. °

000067
000068
