Document Released Under the Access to

colotuu ko Boe

dhe Kusese yey
pe erOL ae en vertu

de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

ICSR Advises U.N. Security Council on Foreign Fighters (September 2014):

Professor Peter Neumann acts as senior advisor to the U.S. Mission and the U.N. Security
Council, briefing them on the scale and nature of the foreign fighter movement in order
to inform the development of domestic legislation.

 

ICSR Insight ~ Offering Foreign Fighters in Syria and Iraq a Way Out (August 2014):
An update of the Syria team’s research including numbers of foreign fighters in Syria
and Iraq, a discussion of the motivations behind this jihadist movement in reference to

British policy and suggestions for the consequences that might face these fighters upon -

their return.

 

Who Inspires the Syrian Foreign Fighters? (March 2014):

The Syria team give a brief summary ahead of the launch of their #GreenBirds report in
April 2014, discussing the impact of social media and naming highly influential figures
around foreign fighter networks.

 

What To Do About British Foreign Fighters in Syria (January 2014):

A synopsis of evidence given in front of the House of Commons Home Affairs Select

Committee, including advice on how to empower security agencies and reconfiguration
of the Channel Project.

 

Up to 11,000 Foreign Fighters in Syria; Steep Rise Among Western Europeans
(December 2014):
An update on numbers monitored by ICSR’s database as well as specific information on

donor countries and patterns. —

 

Syrian Foreign Fighters: 10 Questions for Government (November 2013):
Peter Neumann poses ten questions to the FCO and other arms of the British
Government on the subject of radicalization in the Syrian conflict.

ICSR Identifies Briton Killed prin in sya (Ne ovember 20 13):

 

British Foreign Fighters in Syria (October 2013): ‘

Insight provides a comprehensive and updated profile of the ‘British Foreign Fighter’,
discusses possible motivations and practical arrangements for travel to Syria, as well as
detailing the affiliation of currently active groups.

000051

* 000052
