Document Released Under the Access to

Inbocuntiont Relddied iuinder tha vueress toertu

dénfarnation Fot¢é @ocuiiaéatidiviitgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

believed to be invested with unparalleled virtues and divine rewards.”° Quite often these
decisions to join militant groups are also bound up with notions of masculinity and valour.’' As
Deeyah Khan notes, modern media tends to provide a message for men of heroism that is defined
through “control, independence and the ability to commit violence, from superheroes to crime
dramas.” An interplay occurs between respect and fear — those that feel disrespected want to be
feared. This is summed up in a tweet from Ali Kalantar: - “running away from jihad will not save
you from death. You can die as a coward or you can die as a martyr.””? Ismail Jabber expressed
similar sentiments, writing, “the urnmah i is bleeding and now its time to findbout [sic] who are
the lions, cats and snakes [sic].””

For Mehdi Hasan, it no longer made sense to remain in the United Kingdom. He felt obligated to
be in Syria and had come to regard Britain as a country where it was impermissible for Muslims
to live permanently. 75 Instead, his loyalty was now owed to the “micro Caliphates” established
all over the world.’* His decision to migrate to Syria was also mixed with a degree of fatalism, |
stemming from normative Islamic belief that an individual’s lifespan is predestined and fixed.’
As Kalantar argued, “running away from jihad will not save you from death.” As the moment is
already fixed, a true believer should migrate to the battlefields not only to demonstrate their
faith, but to also relieve the suffering of the ummah. Mehdi Hasan explained this clearly in a
Facebook post arguing, “I’m gonna do my best to help ppl [sic], my death is written. Ifthekar
fought his first battle after 5 months in jihad and got shadah {martyrdom] whilst an azeri bro
fought i in jihad for 15 years and he got shadah in the same battle.”

Ifthekar Jaman also wrote extensively on how the pains of inaction involved missing out on the
supposed rewards of a holy warrior and martyr. “The gates of jannah [paradise] will be so
amazing that you would stand in awe for years admiring its beauty,” he wrote. “This is just the
gates. Now imagine jannah, with the small imagination we have been given, waterfalls from high
skies, valleys with the most beautiful plants, mountains.””? Jaman frequently reminded his
readers about the virtuous of jihad, martyrdom, and the nirvana of paradise. Ismail Jabber went
further by expressing his guilt at failing to act, feeling that the longer he avoided jihad, the more
jahil (or ignorant) he was becoming. His use of the term jahil is particularly relevant here
because it refers to the idolatrous and polytheistic state of pre-Islamic Arabia, generally held by
Muslims to have been an era of spiritual darkness and moral decay. “I’ve seen light and [yet
become jahil,” Jabber wrote. “But this time I’m going to the light even if it has to burn me.”
is clear that Jabber was wrestling with the various phases of his radicalisation — the sense of duty,

doa:

See Appendix; Figure 5

7! See Appendix; Figure 6

7 enhaas D., ‘Jihad Masculinity’, Huffington Post Blog, July 10° 2015, last accessed August 26" 2015, at
-/farwrw huttin co.uk/deeyah-khan/jihad-deeyah-khan_b_7770578.html

2 Ali Kalanar (RandomGuy WithA Suit/@AliAlfarsiii), Twitter, 29 October 2014
™ Waran Aki’law, Facebook, 16 November 2013
75 Mehdi Hasan (@AbuDujana), Twitter, 25 August 2013

7 Thid., 22 November 2012
7? See Watt, W., ‘Free Will and Predestination in Early Islam’, The Muslim World, Vol. 36, No. 2, 1946, pp. 124-

152. Also see Appendix; Figure 7

78 abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014

79 Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 27 January 2013
% Waran Aki’law, Facebook, 2 August 2013

16
000021

000023
