Document Released Under the Access to
(lostyabia eles upset Waves a=" tu
datéihatish BIR aVaNgHE en vertu

de la Loi sur a soceea a wef

Kanishka Project - Key Achievements to Date:

Kanishka Project has invested over $6.7 million through the contribution mechanism for
37 projects, 23 of which are complete and a number of which involve multiple unique
studies.

Collectively, initiatives under the Project’s contribution program have hosted dozens of |
workshops and research symposiums, created ten websites for public knowledge
dissemination, and submitted more than 50 research reports.

PS has directly contracted nine research studies, funded 24 student projects, and hosted a
range of events to bring together officials, researchers and stakeholders, including family
members of victims of the Air India bombing.

Kanishka has generated new capacity to support counter-terrorism practitioners through new
relationships between departments and researchers. Of note, the Canadian Network for
Research on Terrorism, Security and Society (TSAS) was created in 2012 with core
funding from Round One of the Kanishka Project. TSAS fosters multidisciplinary research
on terrorist radicalization, the coordinated interaction of academic researchers with
government officials, and the cultivation of a new generation of young scholars interested in

. terrorism, security, and the impact of both on society. It currently has over 50 affiliated

researchers from a variety of disciplines with partnerships across government, civil society
groups, and internationally.

The development of a “community of science and practice” has resulted in more informed
public discourse, which played out in a real way after the October 22 Ottawa shootings.

o- Scholars from TSAS and other Kanishka studies participated in over 100 media
appearances in the days following the Ottawa shooting.

o Kanishka researchers quickly responded to a call from the federal S&I Community
for assessments on the reaction of online communities to the Oct 22 Ottawa shooting.

REASEARCH FUNDED

Consultations with partners in the security and intelligence community have shown that their
engagement with Kanishka researchers, especially through the TSAS network, have directly
contributed to priority setting for intelligence analysts, as well as to the framing of analytical
products, and to the content of intelligence assessments.

Ongoing research projects like The Syria Conflict: the Evolution of al Qaeda and other
Militant Movements after the Arab Spring, by the International Centre for the Study of
Radicalisation and Political Violence (ICSR), which is housed at King’s College London
(UK), are not only contributing to public understanding about the involvement of foreign

- terrorist fighters, but also serving a complementary function to closed-source intelligence.

Findings from work under the above-mentioned Syria Conflict study have recently been used
to brief frontline police officers on the phenomenon of young females traveling to Syria, how

000106

000076
