Document Released Under the Access to

Infqpaitinart Retbeseulatal HAG aay tou
de \ntbAhationh Aa DOciiieit Aivligue en vertu
de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

and concluded that Shia’s were a heretical sect who could not be considered real Muslims.”
Fighting them was not only permissible, but a duty. He committed himself to travelling to Si
for the sake of jihad.

This was far from straightforward. Jaman lacked contacts and unsuccessfully tried to establish
links with fighters from the UK for several months. Indeed, he even reached out to a number of
charity and aid convoys that were travelling to the country in the hope they might facilitate his
transfer to a jihadist group. He was tumed down; his unfamiliarity with existing radical °
structures in the real world temporarily impeded his plans until Jaman decided to travel to the
Syrian border alone and make connections there. Such innovation is generally rare, with the
Inajority of the fighters lacking the strength of character to take such a bold move when still -
relatively young.

Telling his family he was enrolling on an Arabic course, Jaman flew to Antakya — a small
Turkish town close to the Syrian border ~— and then took a bus to Reyhanli. It was on this journey
that Jaman met a man from Aleppo entirely by chance and revealed his desire to wage jihad in
Syria. He helped Jaman cross the Syrian border and took him to Aleppo where he had hoped to
join Jabhat al-Nusra. “I looked around and I saw them raising the black flag everywhere,” Jaman
told Shiraz Maher, senior fellow at the ICSR. “People think it’s the flag of al-Qaeda but, no, it’s
the flag of Islam. vido Once in Aleppo Jaman was taken to a Jabhat al-Nusra recruitment office
but was turned away. Again, Jaman’s lack of contact with existing radical networks made it

_ difficult for him to win the trust of groups fighting on the ground. No one could provide him
with tazkiyyah however, and thus his sincerity remained unknown. Despite his best efforts, the
lack of tazkiyyah meant Jaman was unable to join Jabhat al-Nusra. “I got teary. I was devastated.
This is what I’d come for,” Jaman said.'*' Islamic State was less concemed with Jaman’s status
and let him join without a reference. This is characteristic for the group, which has lower barriers
to entry than many other militant organisations in Syria.

Jaman used the Internet to maintain regular and intense contact with a group of five friends in
Portsmouth to whom he had grown particularly close in the year preceding his migration to
Syria: his cousin, Asad Uzzaman; Muhammad Hamidur Rahman; Mamunur Roshid; Mashudur
Choudhury; and, Mehdi Hassan. Jaman used Skype and WhatsApp to conduct private
discussions with his friends about his experiences in Syria. Jaman encouraged his friends to join
him and offered detailed instructions of what clothing to bring, how much money to carry, and
logistics for crossing the border. Moreover, Jaman could now offer his friends a smoother and
more considered plan for entering territory held by Islamic State by giving them tazkiyyah. This
is the real significance of the offline peer-to-peer relationship here. By offering his friends a
greater degree of information and knowledge, Jaman was able to lower the emotional and
psychological barriers to participation. Having arranged tazkiyyah for the five Portsmouth men,
Jaman gave them highly specific information about where to travel in Turkey in order to meet
trusted fixers and transporters who would facilitate their transfer into Syria. In the event, he was
even able to arrange for a truck to pick them up near the border.

139 «This is the duty on me” — exclusive interview with 23-year-old British jihadi in Syria”, BBC Newsnight,
YouTube, November 208 2013, accessed August 26%, 2015, https://www. youtube. com/watch?v=BPTSw-cC4UQ. -

¥° Shiraz Maher interview with Ifthekar Jaman, Skype, 2013
"1 Thid. (2013)

29
000217

000120
