Document Released Under the Access to

Infguaatiant Rbrebosd URS KElAueds 8
deédfobPiatidh RecracoLtTeNiAgus en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information _

interwoven into our “new media ecology.” Social media, as Haidt notes, makes it
“extraordinarily easy to join crusades, express solidarity and outrage, and shun traitors.”
Facebook was founded in 2004, for example; this means that the first wave of students who spent
their formative years using the ¢ platform are now reaching early adulthood, the prime
demographic for mobilisation.” Haidt goes on to argue that these first true “social-media
natives” are different in how they share and engage with friends over moral judgments, news
stories, and pro-social endeavours compared the previous generation, whose dominant
technology was television.**

This has undoubtedly affected their socialisation. For Shapiro and Margolin, ‘standing out’ i.e.
developing an identity while pursuing autonomy, and ‘fitting in’ i.e. finding acceptance from
peers through comfortable affiliations, are the paradoxical yet crucial tasks in an individuals
social development during adolescents.” For the authors, this clearly intersects in the modern
age with the use of these platforms, relating to adolescents social connectivity and identity
development more so than previous communications technologies. For Shapiro and Margolin,
sociability, self-esteem and the nature of the SNS feedback act as important potential
moderators, affectin cting the identity creation of the individual as well as the development of the
offline interactions.

A new report the Pew Research Centre that explored the “new contours of friendship in the
digital age” supports these findings.” Rather than the traditional perception that teenagers are in
some way wasting time online, the study indicates not just that new relationships are being
created but that offline, real world friendships are being strengthened. This appears to follow a
broader sociological trend that teenagers are spending less time face-to-face and that the online
world provides a space for them to ‘hang-out’ more.” One of the authors, Lenhart, claimed that
“many teenagers can’t choose to go and physically be with their friends. ..any number of things
may contribute to teenagers having fewer opportunities to gather physically than they once did,
from changes in drivers’ licensing to genuinely unsafe neighbourhoods to a parental perception
that allowing a teenager the freedom to roam freely by bike or on foot is less safe than it was in

 

% See Awan, A. et al., Radicalisation and Media: Connectivity and terrorism in the new media ecology, Routledge,
Oxford, 2011.

- % Haidt, J., Lukianoff, G., ‘The Coddling of the American Mind’, The Atlantic, September 2015, last accessed
August 264 2015, http: Liwww. theatlantic. com/magazine/archive/2015/09/the-coddling-of- the-american-
mind/399356/

35 og Did. (2015)

% Shapiro, L.A.S, Margolin, G., ‘Growing Up Wired: Social Networking Sites and Adolescent Psychosocial
Development’, Clinical Child Family Psychological Review, (17), 2014, p. 1
57 Thid. (2014)
98 Lenhart, A. et al, ‘Teens, Technology & Friendships: Video games, social media and mobile phones play an
integral role in how teens meet and interact with friends’, Pew Research Centre, ner 2015, accessed August
26", 2015, http: ewinte a Fri . 2.
® Thid. (2015)

 

21
000209

000112
