s.13(1)(a)

Document Released Under the Access to
Rocumieah Releabad Winder thie Agcésateertu

dafermationAct/Beautiehtdkailgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

The Norwegian police see law enforcement as just a small portion of what the service does. As a
result, they encourage officers to take a mid-career break and pursue a wide range of career
options before returning to the service. Commissioner Humlegard spent several years at Det
Norske Veritas (DNV-GL}; Commissioner Smedsrud has a law degree and worked as a full time
lawyer several years back.

Current challenges

Com. Humlegard listed two major challenges facing Norwegian police: 8.13(1)(a).

1)

 

2) New ICT Initiatives: Norwegian police is looking to leverage technology in concert with the police

district amalgamation. The overriding motto is “fewer police buildings, greater police presence”.

The police plans to establish an inter-connected, structured database with a mobile portal that

will allow police officers to draft reports remotely and spend more time on the road. The new

solution was launched in three police districts and has thus far been deemed an overwhelming ‘5.4 3(1){a)
success.

 

Norwegian police international presence

The Norwegian police aim to have 1% of its force abroad, whether in a [liaison or training
capacity. Norway has been a-very active contributor to interpof and UN police training missions.
Norwegian officers are working at the new Interpol office in Singapore, and have most recently
trained local services in Liberia, Hebron and South Sudan. Norway has been lauded
internationally for its high level of police training in these missions. In addition, the four Nordic
European nations have a robust exchange program where police and customs officers are
seconded between forces.

Action item

Commissioner Humlegard was very excited at the prospect of meeting with senior Canadian
police and security officers should the opportunity arise in the new year.

Attendees

Odd Reidar Humlegard National Police Commissioner National Police Directorate
Knut Smedsrud Police Commissioner National Police Directorate
Kaare Songstad Head of Contingency Department National Police Directorate
Artur Wilczynski Ambassador Embassy of Canada to Norway

000064

000065
