Document Released Under the Access to
Décumelt Réeasbourdenthd adeseste vertu
hifolrriationuAdta(Deeuntantaivaljad en vertu
de Ia Loi sur l'accés a linformation .

Template to assist with amending your contrition agreement ~ please save, complete sections highlighted in yellow,
and send back to me as soon as possible @ Thank you! Cassandra -

1.

 

lease provide me with a short narrative (no more than a paragraph or two) explaining why you are
required to extend your agreement into the next fiscal year. For example, I know staff tumover is one
reason we discussed. How much additional time do you need?

 

There are two primary reasons we require a no-cost extension to our agreement. These are follows:

- Since starting the project, ICSR has sought to bring a high degree of social science rigor to the process
_ of studying the Syrian conflict. This is because we believe an empirical base is important for informing

our study, rather thari just anecdotal evidence. Our database is, arguably, the best and largest of its kind
anywhere in the world and is bringing forward important results for a number of interested parties —
including the Canadian government, Building this digital infrastructure has been far more time
consuming and exhaustive than we anticipated (there is no precedent for it). While this has delayed us,
we have now collected a huge amount of data and are therefore proceeding with using this to produce
highly detailed and informed reports. . :

- Staff turnover (70% of the team have moved on to new opportunities!) has impacted in our ability to
meet previously anticipated deadlines.

We therefore request a no-cost extension on deliverables.
Below, if applicable, please type in the revised budget number next to the number currently approved in
your amended contribution agreement. Are you able to spend all of your budget for 2014-15? Could you

potentially spend more money, if funds are available? How much additional funding do you require for
2015-167:

Eligible Expenses for Fiscal Year

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2014 - 2015
DETAILED CASH ELIGIBLE EXPENSES

Detailed *Eligible © Currently approved Revised budget
Expenditures, according to Public Safety Canada | (decrease or increase )
Program T&C Categories Funding
Salaries and wages" ~__ $120,862.33 No change
Travel (field work) $7,000.00 No change
Public awareness and
educational activities $5,000.00 No change
Office space costs $3,698.67 No change

Sub-Total Cash) $136,561.00 No change

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Eligible Expenses for Fiscal Yea:
2015 - 2016 :

 

PROPOSED CASH ELIGIBLE EXPENSES

 

 

 

ao00ss

000060
