Document Released Under the Access to

Infoxspatiand ebidaesy WRHbP ihe aueed Yertu
eititdrtdtlin AGEPRScLuHGAE GUS en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information

,

practical considerations; first, should Internet companies curb the free speech of individuals by
removing content? If yes, to what extent it is feasible to do so? .

The problems with framing the issue in this way are profound, however. First, nobody wins; this
report has illustrated that keeping the material online will undoubtedly have an effect on recruits,
yet taking it down is also flawed. Not only is the process of removing Twitter accounts only
marginally effective in reducing the overall noise of jihadist activity, it is not resource efficient
while preventing concerned parties such as governments, academics and security analysts from
learning about the conflict and studying its broader trends.'*

While this report has highlighted the importance of this debate, the Internet’s limitations have
also been illustrated, with offline dynamics appearing crucial in the actual physical movement to
the region. The Internet debate, while important, appears increasingly abstract and detached from
the reality of how the mobilisation process works. Some of the attention must be refocused, then,
on the traditional factors and mechanisms of mobilisation that exit in society rather than online.

Extremism, both its acts and ideas, can only be countered with civic engagement. As Nemr
notes, facts don’t matter to extremists.'“” Unpalatable ideas need to be made marginalised and
made taboo for them not take root and spread, and this requires a civic, values based approach.
Grassroots campaigns that take a holistic approach to countering extremism, that have a granular
understanding of the dynamics on a local level, need to be empowered. An example would be the
Active Change Foundation, based in East London. Started by Hanif Qadir, an ex-radical who
fought in Afghanistan at the start of the ‘War on Terror’, the organisation has had great success
in ingraining ideas of civic responsibility and positive values, such as leadership, in young
people. The programmes they offer help those participating in learning valuable life skills, but
also become a hub of values that slowly disseminate into the community at large. The success of
these programs relies on trust, which needs time to build. The crisis in the Middle East, and thus
the steady flow of radicalised migrants travelling to the region, shows no sign of abating. Unless
governments take a proactive approach, the physical and political repercussions could be drastic.

 

"8 See Berger, J.M., Morgan, J., ‘ISIS Twitter Census’, The Brookings Project on U.S. Relations with the Islamic
World, No, 20, March 2015.
“© Nemr (2015). ,

32

000037

000039
