s.19(1) Document Released Under the Access to
Didcunaiht Rékdiacod Undenthd aiigosetovertu
hifonriation A¢bcBecuntentdivatgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)
From: Kubicek, Brett
Sent: _ Wednesday, March 11, 2015 4:20 PM .
To: ‘ * ‘Shiraz Maher’; Lively, Cassandra
Ce: ‘Partington, Neil’; Martin, Connie
_ Subject: RE: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London

Thank you for this Shiraz - | think the assumption was that you could do a special journal issue without a conference {and |
there are ways, of course), but I’m good with the idea of subbing additional papers by the ICSR team instead, especially
_if they are of similar scale/effort — which seems to be the case.

We do need to make the case for approval here (my authority only goes so far!), and we may have some further
questions (e.g. level of effort). But it should be short and relatively straightforward. :

One thing to keep in mind, with this kind of change, is not to double-count work for the online/offline paper with that
for the restricted briefing paper.

As well, I’m good with the new dates mentioned, though note that monograph does not need to be published for you to
complete that task. “All” we would need i is to see the manuscript. So that might shorten the timeframe. Please let us
know if so.

Note, however, that in putting off the dates this will raise a question here about the gap between us paying for effort
and the delivery of products.

It’s not a problem, but does require a little extra detail. Namely, if you are doing significant work after March (e.g. on
your own time), this should be reflected in the budget as an in-kind contribution.

We will work with you on this, and it should be simple, but we should aim to do this all at once.

Finally, while at it, a quick question about the activity report (which looks great!) — are all the items listed directly linked
to work we’ve funded, or are some more in the realm of just relevant?

For example, the BBC study’s approach to data gathering and analysis looked relevant but separate. But if you have a
direct link to make, that is definitely good to know. Lots of interest here these days about evidence of impact, so keeping
' the line between relevant and linked is helpful — if there is one, that is!

Thanks again.
All best,
Brett.

Brett Kubicek, PhD
Manager, Research and Academic Relations | Gestionnaire, Recherche et relations académiques

Portfolio Affairs and Communications Branch | Secteur des affaires du portefeuille et des communications
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada
Tel: 613.991.7779 | Fax: 613.954.3131 | brett. kubicek .gc.ca

s.19(1)
From: Shiraz Maher [mailto:

Sent: Wednesday, March 11, 2015 1:38 PM
To: Lively, Cassandra

000223

000126
