Document Released Under the Access to
[Documbnt Reteased-Unewrlte Wasess toertu
deftarhation Akt? Bocarlioie divaligué on vertu
do la Loi sur 'accés a information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: | _.  Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Sent: . Friday, January 15, 2016 10:25 AM

Ta: Giroux2, Denis (PS/SP}

Ce: Martin, Connie (PS/SP) .
Subject: ‘ RE: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents:
Attachments: report canada internet. docx

Ok, here goes with a first wave of answers. More later, | hope...
I think only 23 of the contribution agreements are complete {no big deal though).

We have at least 9 examples of direct contracts, with 5 being complete. (I think there are more than 9, but need to
review.)

The Steering Committee was asked at least a few times to make decisions virtually, especially where there had to be
proposal amendments, as well as decisions like whether to support any of the small number proposals that came
through SSHRC funding mechanisms. This probably happened in 2 or 3 of the 5 calls for proposals, and on more than one
issue. So I’d say 3+ virtual decisions. We can track those down if needed.

Same for Working Group on virtual decisions, especially to consult on proposal amendments and decisions on SSHRC
proposals, and there were probably more such virtual meetings. A guess would be 5+, but could be more. The Working
Group was also the community we drew from for review boards on e.g. targeted contract calls for proposals and the
Research Affiliate Program competitions, where boards needed to be much smaller. So there would have been in the
range of 10 of these sub meetings (at least a couple of the 5 contract calls required multiple meetings, and there were at
least 3 meetings to decide on the Research Affiliate Program competitions). As well, the working group had several

. virtual and in-person meetings for priority setting. So we leaned on them to create the four Kanishka Theme areas at the
start of the program, and then we held -an all-day retreat (mentioned below), followed by further virtua! consultations in
the summer of 2013 to review progress and the broader research and threat environment to focus efforts, including a
targeted list of questions used both to inform the following open calls, and to motivate several targeted contract calls.

For item | (Syria Conflict), there are several deliverables. We have a draft of the final report too, attached (‘report
canada internet’). Should be published late this month or sometime next month. As part of this study they have also
published: 8 .

 

- This web ré resource (which you can add to the web site count}: s://icsrforeignfighters.word

For item H, we'll be addressing that when we conduct our own performance measures, focusing on ‘fit for use’
measures linked to our logic model. Though some basic evidence is not only the much larger network of researchers
engaged with Kanishka and working directly with gov partners (e.g. the #s from TSAS}, but how we have a much wider
range of gov and non-gov partners at all levels of government, domestically (e.g. more than 6 municipal police forces
were involved in our Canada-US-UK event in July), and internationally such as through the Policy Planners Network
(where Kanishka has been strongly represented - http://www.strategicdialogue.org/progra nter-
extremism/ppn), and the new 5 Eyes research partnership on CVE.

As well, while | think they have this, here is some language re the community of science/practice:
1
. 000110

000080
