Document Released Under the Access to
Document Réldashd Cindenthiadgesetovertu
infdoniatiomAchtDecuntentdivaiged en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information

blog and Ask.fin entries — which we studied with a view to understanding their use of online .
platforms, behaviors, interactions, and changes in attitude.

For this section, we aimed to create a first — and, arguably, very broad — impression of how the
wannabe fighters in our sample have used the internet. To understand change and innovation, we
compared our empirical findings to earlier research about jihadist online behavior. Crucially, we
then looked for evidence of potential crossovers between fighters’ use of the internet and the
online campaigns of jihadist groups like the Islamic State. The result is a first sketch of wannabe
foreign fighters’ online ecosystem which — in our view — consists of three pillars: use e of open
platforms; personal outreach; and ‘fanboy socialization’.

Open Platforms

Our first observation is wannabe fighters’ widespread use of open, mainstream platforms like
Facebook, Twitter, and — more recently - Telegram. All the wannabe fighters in our sample had
such accounts which they used extensively to discuss political and religious issues, as well as

their attitudes towards the conflict, Western society, and the idea of making ijra (that is, going

to Syria).*° The openness of these platforms didn’t deter them. At the time of observation, even
sensitive discussions were frequently conducted via unlocked Twitter accounts, and Facebook
pages remained relatively open (though this may have changed in recent months). In this respect, -
the British wannabes in our sample were typical of many Western fighters who maintain

accounts on at least one of the platforms.

The use of open platforms stands in marked contrast to earlier periods when the majority of
jihadist sympathizers populated stand-alone websites, so-called ‘forums’. The forums were often
password-protected, and people had to be introduced by existing members or spend considerable
periods gaining ‘credibility’ in order to gain access to closed discussions.*! The move to open
platforms has lowered the threshold to becoming involved in the jihadist milieu. Wannabes no
longer need to seek out forums and subject themselves to a complex process of admission. They
are able to ‘dabble’ in jihadist discussions without having to fully commit to the cause, or
confront potentially troubling questions about legality which signing up to a closed forum might
raise. ; .

Another consequence is that wannabe fighters are exposed to a wider range of material, allowing
for greater eclecticism and, by definition, reducing the relative impact of any one particular
source. Among the memes, pictures, articles, and videos that wannabe jihadists posted on their
accounts was output from mainstream television channels, non-jihadist religious sources,
NGO’s, and think tanks. What’s more, the explicitly jihadist content originated with fighters,

*° The concept of hijra relates to the Prophet Mohammed’s journey from Mecca to Medina, and is frequently
invoked by jihadists to justify (and mandate) the migration to a foreign land where Muslims face injustice or

oppression. See x00
31 For an overview of the jihadist discussion forum ‘scene’, see Mohammed Ali Musawi, Cheering Jor Osama: How

Jihadists Use Internet Discussion Forums (London: Quilliam, 2010), esp. Chapter 1; available at
di

 

use-the-internet-forums.pdf

000196

000099
