Document Released Under the Access to

Infegmatienrtesrebasd! Dred dive levees ye'tu
derifobabtibh aSce lini eniRgué en vertu
de la Loi sur Faccés a l'information

The Pains of Inaction

Much of the literature has focused on the Islamic State’s official propaganda, a sophisticated
enterprise coordinated through an extensive network of media offices and affiliated
distributors.** With the notable exception of Erin Saltman and Melanie Smith's work on the
recruitment of Western women to the conflict; little research has been done into how recruits
interact with the less sophisticated, unofficial material produced and disseminated by
sympathisers, much of which was produced before the establishment of the Caliphate. While this
report does not have the capacity to fully investigate the extent to which the material affected the
recruits desire to mobilise, an investigation of how recruits interacted with the material does

’ illustrate a cycle of interaction that contributes towards our understanding of its effects on their
desire to mobilise.

The cycle as a whole is referred to as pains of inaction and consists of three interrelated
responses, which will be explained below; moral outrage — inadequacy of non-violent activism —
need for action. Using primary social media data, which has been cited in the text and presented
the appendix, the reactions of a sample of recruits can be analysed to provide an insight into the

- online material’s radicalising effects.

Recruit Reaction

While the motivations for foreign fighters have been shown to differ over time, a consistent
theme promulgated by rebels groups and supporters has been that of injustice, both against
Muslims as a whole and towards the Syrian people from the Assad regime, and the subsequent
need to protect them. This has fuelled radical jihadist propaganda, which has used the draconian
tactics of the Syrian state to instil powerful and compelling feelings of shame, humiliation, and
unworthiness in the minds of recruits.

The reaction from recruits can be explained using framing theory. The theory focuses on the
socialization, attraction and mobilization of supporters via the construction of a collective
identity.?” Events are framed through an ‘interpretative schemata’ which groups such as IS use to
“locate, perceive, identify and label occurrences within their life space and the world at large.”*®
Tarrow describes a three stage process stresses in which frames form around social occurrences
of injustice.°? First, a diagnostic frame is introduced that outlines problems as unjust and
attributes blame; second, groups create a prognostic frame that proposes potential tactics and
strategies to confront the previously diagnosed problem; finally, the group creates a persuasive,
motivational rationale to prompt action.

3 From the IS central leadership comes six media ‘foundations’ that have thirty-five provincial offices across the

Maghreb and the Levant. See Winter (2015), p. 15.
- §” arrow, S., Power in Movement: Social Movements and Contentious Politics, New York, Cambridge University

Press, 3rd Ed., 2011, pp. 141-156
38 Benford, R.D. & Snow, D., ‘Framing Processes and Social Movements: An Overview and Assessments’ Annual

Review of Sociology Vol. 26, "2000, p. 614
9 ap LarTow (2011), p. 145
© Ibid. p. 145

11

000016
000018
