Document Released Under the Access to

Inomutiont Rd lehest Dredd the lavdess vertu
ddrifobmation asteDocliméntdivuigué en vertu
de Ja Loi sur 'accés 4 Pinformation

Peers over Propaganda:
Online Radicalisation among British Foreign Fighters

By Nick Kaderbhai, Shiraz Maher, and Peter Neumann

CONTENT
Introduction p.l
Islamic State vs. Wannabe Fighters p.5
The Pains of Inaction p. 12
Fighting Communities p. 19
On and Offline . p. 26
Conclusion . p.32
Introduction

The impact of online communication on processes of radicalisation has been vigorously debated
for years. Extremist groups were among the first and most enthusiastic adopters of the internet —
a medium which they believed was free of government control and censorship, allowing for their
unfiltered message to be heard by supporters and sympathisers all over the world.’ Nowadays,
there is practically no extremist group that doesn’t have an online Presence — ~ though their -
activities vary in degree and sophistication.”

Since the beginning of the Syrian conflict in 2011, jihadist groups are widely thought to have
broken new ground. Their use of social media is believed to be massive and sophisticated. For:
‘Islamic State’, it has come to be seen as a central and distinctive feature of its modus operandi,
helping the group intimidate and manipulate their enemies, as well as radicalize and recruit
potential supporters. 3 It is the latter — the role of online communications in radicalization and
recruitment - that is the subject of this report. What impact does social media have on wannabe
foreign fighters from Western countries? How do they use the internet, and — most importantly —
what makes them join up? .

In much of the recent media coverage, the Islamic State’s online campaign is presented as
strongly coordinated and centrally organized, reaching a global audience through high end video

1 Peter Neumann, Countering Online Radicalization in America (Washington DC: Bipartisan Policy Center, 2022), pp.

15-17; available at http://bipartisanpolicy.org/wp-
content/uploads/sites/default/fi les/BPC%20 Online%20Radicalization%20Report.odf.

2 See Gabriel Weimann, New Terrorism and New Media (Washington DC: Woodrow Wilson Center, 2014); available

at htto://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/STIP_140501 new terrorism F.pdf.

3 See, for example, Rose Powell, ‘Cats and Kalashnikovs: Behind the ISIL social media strategy’, Sydney Morning
Herald, 24 June 2014; Steve Rose, ‘The Isis propaganda war: a hi~tech media jihad’, Guardian, 7 October 2014;
Scott Shane and Ben Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying a Deft Command of Varied Media’, New York Times, 30 August 2014.

1
000006

000008
