Document Released Under the Access to
'DeanndarRelbabar under te deuesaoertu

datonhation AaoBecuhielt aealigue en vertu
de {a Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information :

=" We have been offered, and are using, the pro bono services of Palantir, a
software company which allows us to, inter alia, produce sophisticated
network analysis maps of networks/organisations/individuals who are
actively recruiting to, and promoting, the Syrian jihad.

= As stated in the original project proposal, ICSR has also secured ethical
approval from the King’s College London Research Ethics Committee. This
ensures our research is guided and overseen by a rigorous ethical framework
approved by the College.

= We have developed a working hypothesis of what we believe to be the key
drivers and dynamics of radicalisation behind the current influx of Western -
Muslims into this conflict. These findings have been shared extensively with
participants in some. of our meetings {including with a number of |
stakeholders in Canada).

OFFICIAL PUBLIC ENGAGEMENTS
« Shiraz Maher was called to give evidence to the House of Commons, Home
Affairs Select Committee on “counter-terrorism.” This evidence session

related specifically to the flow of British/European foreign fighters into Syria,
and the potential long-term implications of the phenomenon.

® Shiraz Maher was called to give evidence to the House of Commons, Foreign
Affairs Committee on “the crisis in Syria and the impact upon its neighbours”
in December 2013.

PUBLISHED PRELIMINARY RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
® Alist of published preliminary research findings is given below.

= In April 2013, ICSR was the first research organisation to provide a credible
and comprehensive estimate of the number of foreign fighters engaged in the
Syrian conflict. (Our numbers were confirmed and adopted by several

governments and the EU's Counterterrorism Coordinator). Please note: this
_was a research finding published/investigated before the current project

was launched.

« In October 2013, we published an overview of British foreign fighters in
Syria, outlining their profiles and motivations.

« In November 2013, we documented a number of individual cases
(here and here) of British foreign fighters in Syria, revealing that a much
higher number than previously known had died in battle. (The Foreign and
Commonwealth Office subsequently launched an official probeinto the
issue).

000041

000043
