Document Released Under the Access to

Infapeeatiaard Reel iydongesav este

de frrbeenstiod MATDSCUHSAP aN Agué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés & l'information

On and Offline

In July 2015, Syed Choudhary was jailed for plotting to travel to join Islamic State. The
prosecution described how the teenager began researching the conflict online, accessing websites
such as ‘10 reasons to join ISIS’ and ‘Turkey travel, Jihadist Highway.”!”° His lawyer noted that

- Choudhary “was openly using Facebook and Twitter accounts that could link to him to material

_ that was highly incriminating. There appears to be no attempt at all to disguise his involvement °
_ or insulate himself from detection.”!2! Syed’s case can be understood with reference to the last
two chapters, which have sought to demonstrate how online activity can affect the desire and
decision to become a foreign fighter. However, a detail in the case perfectly encapsulates the
argument of this chapter and the driving thesis of the report; when first arrested in December
2014, Choudhary told police that the reason that he had not travelled was because he had not
found anyone trustworthy to travel with.'”” Thus, while the online activity may affect the desire
and decision to travel, overwhelming evidence suggests that the actual mobilisation relies on
offline interactions. Having explained the dynamics behind this mechanism, the chapter will use -
recent historical data to illustrate two key examples in which offline interactions appear central
to the recruit’s transition from decision to action.

Explaining the Dynamics

The dynamics of offline interactions, while not a new phenomenon, represents a key factor in the
practical mobilisation of foreign fighters. While the online fighting commumities help to build a
commitment to the cause through virtual connections, the peer-to-peer relationships are crucial in
facilitating the transition from decision to actual mobilisation. Evidence suggests that this is
practical as well as psychological; resources and logistics become easier to organise in a group
than individually. The same goes for decéption; convincing concerned relatives or friends that
your intentions and actions are benign may become more plausible if part of a small group of
‘trusted’ peers.

This is a trend that has become central to the way that mobilisation has come to be understood.
In America, a minority within the Somali-American population in the suburbs around
Minneapolis have actively facilitated the recruitment of fighters to Islamic State, with the most
recent arrests occurring in mid-April 2015.'7? At least 59 Belgian foreign fighters were affiliated
with Sharia4Belgium, with most originating out of the geographical axis of Antwerp, Mechelen,
" Vilvorde and Brussels.!** Of the eighteen Swedish fighters identified by the Combating
Terrorism Center in 2013, eleven were from two small neighbouring suburbs of Gothenburg —

120 Spillet, R., ‘Teenager who planned to join ISIS in Syria and said ‘all By people should be killed’ is jailed for
more than three years’, Mail Online, July 7*, 2015, accessed August 26" 2015,
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3 152 172/Teenager-planned-join-ISIS-jailed-three-years.html

121 Thid. (2015)

"22 Thid. (2015) . .

3 Johnson, K., & Bacon, J., ‘Six arrested in anti-terrorism sweep, latest in string of such cases’, USA Today, April
20" 2015, accessed August 26" 2015, http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2015/04/19/federal-agents-terror-
sweep-minneapolis-san-diego/26054419/ , ,

124 Van Ostaeyen, P., ‘Belgian Fighters in Syria and Iraq — April 2015,” April 5" 2015, accessed April 26“ 2015, at
https://pietervanostaeyen. wordpress.com/?s=belgian+ foreign+fighters&submit=Search

25
000213

000116
