Rocument Released Under the Access to

HBAE RbaDAP Una dy auesel gente
pe ateh AAT BSciMs Bin aiviliglte en vertu
de Ia Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

disseminators, religious ‘cheerleaders’, and other fanboys — not only jihadist groups and their
media production entities. This doesn’t mean that wannabe fighters can easily be swayed or
influenced: the material they disseminate tends to reinforce their jihadist worldview — whatever
the source. But it demonstrates that material produced by jihadist groups like Islamic State is not
their only source of information, nor does it seem to have an exceptionally strong impact.

Personal Outreach —

Another important characteristic of wannabes’ online behavior is attempts to reach out to foreign
fighters in Syria or Iraq. From the wannabes’ perspective, being in direct communication with
fighters on the ground is an exciting way of learning about the conflict; it enables them to take
part in the life of people they identify with; and it represents a first-hand source of information
about how to get to Syria. The fighters in our sample used different methods for getting in touch
with fighters. Some did so openly, through Tweets or by posting on fighters’ Facebook pages.
Others used Ask.fm, which allows for questions to be asked anonymously, or requested fighters
to connect via private messaging services (such as KiK and Whatsapp) and Twitter’s direct
message function.

The ability to communicate with fighters is a relatively recent phenomenon. In earlier periods,
wannabes used to be limited to hanging out in forums, talking to each other and consuming the
latest news and videos from the frontlines. Early jikobbyists such as Younis Tsouli (‘Irhabi007’)
gained prominence because they were seen as “being close’ to groups like al Qaeda in Iraq,
though everyone realized they weren’t members and hadn’t ever stepped into a conflict zone.”
Anwar al Awlaki, the radical preacher who made it his mission to incite homegrown ‘lone
wolves’ in the late 2000s, was the first major jihadist figure to cultivate fanboys through his
blog.”? The first actual fighter to communicate with wannabes on a regular basis was Omar
Hammami, an American who had joined al Shabab in Somalia, but his outreach efforts were
isolated, erratic and, ultimately, short-lived.*4

It remains unclear to what extent the communication between Syria wannabes and fighters is .
directed by jihadist groups and whether, therefore, the personal outreach is a deliberate and
organized part of their social media campaigns. While it seems clear that many groups regard
fighters’ personal social media activity as desirable, we are confident that most of the fighters we
have spoken to maintain their Twitter and Facebook accounts (more or less) autonomously. The
communication between wannabes and fighters appears to be mostly self-initiated, and though
faced with restrictions in relation to what they can and can’t say, the exchanges are never entirely |
scripted or choreographed. oo,

Fanboy Socialization

32 Soe Rita Katz and Michae! Kern, ‘Terrorist 007, Exposed’, Washington Post, 26 March 2006.
38 yarret M. Brachman and Alix N. Levine, ‘You Too Can Be Awlaki’, The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, 35(1)

(2011), pp. 27-32.
* |.M. Berger, ‘Omar and Me: My Strange and Frustrating Retationship with an American Terrorist’, Foreign Policy,

17 September 2013.
, 9
000014
000016
