Document Released Under the Access to

(Psst barat unusy ull ube tel
Grtéth Stan Act 7 SScuriBieaHANGUB en vertu
de la Loi sur I'aceés & l'information

This is not to say, however, that the group’s entire online presence is top down and centrally
coordinated. In our #Greenbirds report, we showed that the most influential spiritual authorities -
among Western foreign fighters had no formal association with Islamic State or other jihadist
groups, nor were they located in Syria or Iraq (one was based in the United States, the other was

' Australian). They served as spiritual ‘cheerleaders’ who had taken it upon themselves to promote
and justify the idea of foreign fighting, typically through the internet, and emerged as important

— albeit wholly independent — sources of influence.”* :

Our report also highlighted the role of so-called ‘disseminators’ who are key to pushing the
groups’ messages to their Western recipients. Among the Western foreign fighters in our
database, the most popular Twitter accounts were not the groups’ official accounts (none of them
even made it into the Top 10), but those of independent disseminators like ‘Shami Witness’ who
were broadly supportive of the Islamic State, justified its actions and re-tweeted its material, but
also produced their own. output (for example, memes), promoted unorthodox sources of
information, and — occasionally — disagreed with the party line.?° Seven years ago, Jarret
Brachman coined the term ‘jihobbyist’ to describe such individuals, recognizing that, in a vast,
growing and seemingly anarchical structure like the internet, they were essential to ‘[moving]
forward the Jihadist agenda’.”’

Not least, there are hundreds, if not thousands, of so-called ‘fanboys’ — enthusiastic supporters of - ~
the Islamic State who populate Facebook and Twitter and spend considerable amounts of time
discussing the latest developments and re-tweeting the pictures, memes and other material

published by fighters and disseminators. Communicating with other, seemingly more prominent
members gives them a sense of being part of the movement and having a role to play — even if

' their direct involvement with jihadist groups is minimal. Like the cheerleaders and

disseminators, they are supporters, not members, and they receive no explicit direction. Yet their
‘contribution is essential to making the group visible and effective. Acting like a swarm, they are
what ICSR research fellow Nico Prucha called the ‘media mujahideen’.

How Wannabe Fighters Use the Intemet .

For our analysis of how wannabe fighters use the internet, we examined the online postings of
the 10 British fighters in our sample between the first time they had publicly contemplated the
idea of going to Syria and their eventual departure. We didn’t, therefore, look at their entire — |
radicalisation trajectory (many had, in fact, been involved in extremist causes long before the
Syrian conflict) but narrowly focused on the process of joining up,”* which could last from a few
weeks to several months. Our data consisted of Tweets and Facebook posts — in some cases also

* Carter, 4#Greenbirds, op cit., pp. 18-28.

*, bid. pp. 15-18.
2 Jarret Brachman, Globol Jihadism: Theory and | Practice (London and New York: Routledge, 2009), p. 19.

28 Ali Fisher and Nico Prucha, ‘ISIS is winning the online jihad against the West’, Daily Beast, 1 October 2014.
25 For a discussion of concepts like ‘recruitment’ and ‘joining up’ in the context of jihadist radicalisation, see Peter
R. Neumann, ‘Joining Al-Qaeda: Jihadist Recruitment in Europe’, Adelphi Paper #399, International institute for

Strategic Studies, January 2009.

000195

000098
