s.19(1)

Media Outlet

Telephone

 

Call Date

 

Status
Subject

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

Radio-Canada Manitoba

 

08/05/2017 5:00 PM

Reporter abandoned request

Semaine sur la ‘sécurité publique

 

 

Questions

Interview requested

Interview granted

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. = 277 de Radio-Canada Manitoba voudrait faire
une “entrevue avec un expert dans le cadre de la semaine
sur la sécurité publique.

Yes

No

  

   

 

 

 

I've been asked to get clarity on this cost sharing stuff with
regards to the flood and natural disasters writ large. DND
tells me they basically send their incremental! costs to Public
Safety on a cost-recovery basis, but I don’t know what
Public Safety does with them. Hoping you could walk me

 

Reporter
Media Outlet ~ Canadian Press
Telephone _ a :
Call Date a 09/05/2017 12:45 AM
Status ~ Completed
Subject - Flooding Costs
Questions ~

through it.
Response —

MO has already provided the following (looking for more
information):

This is a unique situation, a natural disaster and the
government is here to support Canadians in this time of
need,

As the Prime Minister said, the federal government will cover
the costs of deploying the military, like in Quebec, for
example, where they requested this assistance.

These are difficult times for thousands of citizens, who have
shown that helping each other is a core part of our
values. And we are here to help.

It is important to note, also, that there are no recent
examples of the Government of Canada charging a Province
for providing assistance during a natural disaster, including
for the response efforts for the Fort McMurray wildfires. Our
priority at this time remains focused on providing Canadians
in distressed regions with the support, aid and tools they
need to mitigate the flooding and keep communities safe.

PS MR added the following:

With regards to the costs of the current flooding in Eastern
Canada, The Prime Minister has stated, “when Canadians are
facing natural disasters or serious issues, we pull together.
That's who we are. Quebec and Ontario asked for military
support and we're happy to give it and of course the federal
government will assume all costs related to support for
Quebec and Ontario in these floods.

It would be premature, however, to speculate on the costs
associated with the current flooding situation in Quebec and

000216
