s.1 9(1) . Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
- de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Goldfinger, Marc (PS/SP)

 

From ’ a5.
Sent:

To: ae

Subject: SecDev: Palantir and US Government Fraud Oversight Program

On Friday, June 18th 2010 US Vice President Joe Biden and Office of Management and Budget Director Peter

Orszag held a press conference at the White House announcing the success of fighting fraud in the stimulus by

the Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board (RATB). Vice President Biden credited the success to the

software being deployed by the Federal Government. He also announced that the capability will be deployed at
- other US government agencies with significant budgets, starting with Medicare and Medicaid.

|
Palantir is the software platform used to help the government fight fraud and root out shady contractors.

An excerpt from USA Today:
http://content.usatoday.com/communities/theoval/post/2010/ (06/obama-administration-to-create-do-not-pay-list-

to-bar-shady-contractors

"New software, widely in use in the private sector but just now being deployed by the federal government, will
enable Uncle Sam to end ... [fraud], Vice President Biden and White House Budget Director Peter Orszag said
today. It allows the government to cross-check multiple databases [i.e. data integration] for background

on prospective contractors. Orszag showed one example where five "companies" were traced to the same
address: a house with a swimming pool and a boat dock.

The software already is in use to monitor contracts issued under the $787 billion economic stimulus act; now it
will be deployed to other big-spending government agencies, starting with Medicare and Medicaid.

:
Biden predicted this will result in significant savings of taxpayer dollars. "We have weapons we didn't have or
didn't use before," he said."

OMB Director Peter Orszag adds from his blog:
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/blog/10/06/18/Do-Not-Pay-Do-Read-This-Post ,

"I am a huge fan of data and am really impressed by this tool. It gathers enormous quantities of information — in
real time — and then analyzes the data and helps connect the dots to identify indicators of possible fraud or
error.” ,

The SecDev Group is an operational consultancy based in Ottawa, Canada, and is proud to be the Canadian
integrator for Palantir Technologies. For more information about Palantir as a fraud detection platform and its
applicability to other enterprise level challenges, contact /))))/2))/)5i//)s:i/at the SecDev Group, (613) 755-
4007 or}: _

 

 

 

|. @secdev.ca

 

   

| @secdev.ca)

 

If you no longer wish to receive these emails, please contact

000001
Document Released Under the Access to

Infggaatiel it Fee bye BROS! i ies auc AR ygrtu
dedication Herr ecouan Gué en vertu
dela Loi sur l'accés a l'information

social media profiles of Western citizens or residents who have gone to Syria and Iraq to join
Sunni militant groups, mainly Jabhat al Nusra and, especially, the Islamic State. In addition, we
have communicated with nearly 100 active fighters — in some cases repeatedly and over the
course of several months — and carried out fieldwork in the Turkish region from where most of
them enter Syria.

The use of Palantir, a powerful analytics platform, enabled us to make sense of this data and
generate a small sample of 10 male British fighters for whom we possess sufficient online data
for the period before their departure in order to understand their personal trajectories of
radicalisation and recruitment. It is those fighters whose Tweets; comments, and Facebook
comments will feature prominently in the main part of this report.

Findings .
What we found was new in some respects — and not so new in others:

e THE PAINS OF INACTION: One of the novelties is the impact of massive amounts of.
conflict-related, often highly emotional, content that wannabe fighters are now
exposed to. As extremists have populated mainstream platforms, especially Twitter, it
is no longer possible — or necessary — to separate between ‘moderate’, radical and
extremist sources. For many of the Westem fighters, the sustained (and cumulative)
effect seems to have been an overwhelming feeling of guilt — an emotional pain based
on the stark contrast between one’s own comfort and the enormous suffering and
injustices experienced by one’s ‘brothers and sisters’ in Syria.

© FIGHTING COMMUNITIES: Another new phenomenon is the direct virtual contact
between wannabes and active fighters on the frontlines. In contrast to previous
conflicts, supporters are no longer limited to watching videos and reading statements
but can interact with fighters in real time through platforms like Facebook, Ask.fm,
Twitter, and private messaging applications. This means that fighters and wannabes
can form virtual social communities, build trust and commitment, and — especially
where wannabes and active fighters knew each other previously — create a powerful
sense of moral and personal obligation to join the fight.

¢ ONAND OFFLINE: What’s not new is the interplay between on- and offline
interactions which has occurred in a majority of the cases we have examined. The
internet may help to facilitate contacts and provide inspiration, but people’s actual
decision to go and their subsequent transfer into Syria tends to be preceded by a
significant amount of face to face interaction. This is important for the wannabe
fighters who require strong, personal bonds to become involved in ‘high risk activism,
but it is equally important for the militant groups who want applicants to provide
‘references’, also known as tazkya.

Structure

000008

000010
Document Released Under the Access to
IDocumderReiéadeerunesi tHe nleséss to/ertu
defdrrhation Akt ¢ Oocoitionodhaligué en vertu
de [a Loi sur l'accés 4 linfermation

disseminators, religious ‘cheerleaders’, and other fanboys — not only jihadist groups and their

media production entities. This doesn’t mean that wannabe fighters can easily be swayed or

influenced: the material they disseminate tends to reinforce their jihadist worldview — whatever

the source. But it demonstrates that material produced by jihadist groups like Islamic State is not
their only source of information, nor does it seem to have an exceptionally strong impact.

Personal Outreach

Another important characteristic of wannabes’ online behavior is attempts to reach out to foreign
fighters in Syria or Iraq. From the wannabes’ perspective, being in direct communication with
fighters on the ground is an exciting way of learning about the conflict; it enables them to take
part in the life of people they identify with; and it represents a first-hand source of information
about how to get to Syria. The fighters in our sample used different methods for getting in touch
with fighters. Some did so openly, through Tweets or by posting on fighters’ Facebook pages.
Others used Ask.fm, which allows for questions to be asked anonymously, or requested fighters
to connect via private messaging services (such as KiK and Whatsapp) and Twitter’s direct
message function.

The ability to communicate with fighters is a relatively recent phenomenon. In earlier periods,
wannabes used to be limited to hanging out in forums, talking to each other and consuming the
latest news and videos from the frontlines. Early jihobbyists such as Younis Tsouli (“Irhabi007’)
gained prominence because they were seen as ‘being close’ to groups like al Qaeda in Iraq,
though everyone realized they weren’t members and hadn’t ever stepped into a conflict zone.”
Anwar al Awlaki, the radical preacher who made it his mission to incite homegrown ‘lone
wolves’ in the late 2000s, was the first major jihadist figure to cultivate fanboys through his
blog.*> The first actual fighter to communicate with wannabes on a regular basis was Omar
Hammami, an American who had joined al Shabab in Somalia, but his outreach efforts were
isolated, erratic and, ultimately, short-lived.

It remains unclear to what extent the communication between Syria wannabes and fighters is
directed by jihadist groups and whether, therefore, the personal outreach is a deliberate and
organized part of their social media campaigns. While it seems clear that many groups regard
fighters’ personal social media activity as desirable, we are confident that most of the fighters we
have spoken to maintain their Twitter and Facebook accounts (more or less) autonomously. The
communication between wannabes and fighters appears to be mostly self-initiated, and though
faced with restrictions in relation to what they can and can’t say, the exchanges are never ‘entirely
scripted or choreographed.

Fanboy Socialization

32 See Rita Katz and Michael Kern, ‘Terrorist 007, Exposed’, Washington Post, 26 March 2006.
33 Jarret M. Brachman and Alix N. Levine, ‘You Too Can Be Awlaki’, The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, 35(1)

(2011), pp. 27-32.
4M. Berger, ‘Omar and Me: My'Strange and Frustrating Relationship with an American Terrorist’, Foreign Policy,

17 September 2013.

000197

000100
Document Released Under the Access to
DoéoundinRetiadedaundentnvalwesetovertu
thidmtation Aéet Dec dniisripdivaliueé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

The third pillar of wannabe fighters’ online ecosystem is interaction. Most of the time they spent
online, the wannabes in our sample were busy sharing content, messaging friends, bouncing off
ideas, or reading what others had posted. This came as no surprise. Social media is, by definition,
social: its principal aim and purpose is to facilitate social interaction by electronic means. What
struck us was the extent to which online interaction seemed to be central to their sense of being
part of the movement, and how it played an important role in creating a sense of duty and mutual
obligation. In many cases, online interaction spilled over into face to face meetings. In others, it .
was used to connect individuals or help them gain entry into Syria. In either case, what happened
online (often) didn’t remain online: its purpose and direction was to facilitate offline meetings
through which online contacts and friendships could be mobilized and/or turned into ‘action’.

This is nothing new. As long ago as 2007, when jihadists were hanging out in password-
protected forums and Twitter and Facebook had only just started becoming household names,
Marc Sageman identified social interaction as a key variable in online radicalization. He said:

[The internet] is based on interactivity between the members, which makes participants in
[extremist online] forums change their mind. Some of the participants get so worked up
that they declare themselves ready to be terrorists... Since this process takes place at
home, often i in the parental home, it facilitates the emergence of homegrown
radicalization.>°

The means and platforms through which online interaction takes place have changed, however.
Since the forums have stopped being the virtual ‘town squares’ in which jihadist fanboys met
and congregated, most of the fanboy socialization now takes place on open platforms like
Twitter and then, often, migrates towards protected communications such as private messaging
applications.

The impact of Islamic State media output on this process is marginal. The group’s official videos
and statements may, at times, be a ‘conversation starter’, but more important — and far more
popular — are individual fighters’ messages and pictures which the Islamic State controls only to
a certain extent yet often spark prolonged interactions. Indeed, many of the conversations have
nothing to do with the situation in Syria but are centered on day to day experiences, the flaws
and failings of Western society, and casual jokes and banter.

The Islamic State’s media campaign, therefore, is — at best — a background noise which may be
important during the initial process of radicalisation but ceases to be central when fighters move
from cognitive extremism to violent mobilization. The use of open platforms, direct
communications with fighters, and interaction among each other are all crucial components of
the wannabe fighters’ online ecosystem. How they affect their decision to become foreign
fighters will be the subject of the following chapters.

55 Marc Sageman before the U.S Senate, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Hearing
on Violent Islamist Extremism: The European Experience, June 27, 2007, pp. 1-2.

10
000198

000101
Document Released Under the Access to
[Prounsent ReledgadUndanttiay Aiegeass ttovertu
afomnation Ack é Rocurrientdivdigue en vertu
de fa Loi sur faceds a l'information

The Pains of Inaction

Much of the literature has focused on the Islamic State’s official propaganda, a sophisticated
enterprise coordinated through an extensive network of media offices and affiliated
distributors.** With the notable exception of Erin Saltman and Melanie Smith’s work on the
recruitment of Western women to the conflict, little research has been done into how recruits
interact with the less sophisticated, unofficial material produced and disseminated by
sympathisers, much of which was produced before the establishment of the Caliphate. While this
report does not have the capacity to fully investigate the extent to which the material affected the
recruits desire to mobilise, an investigation of how recruits interacted with the material does
illustrate a cycle of interaction that contributes towards our understanding of its effects on their
desire to mobilise. ,

The cycle as a whole is referred to as pains of inaction and consists of three interrelated
responses, which will be explained below; moral outrage — inadequacy of non-violent activism —
need for action. Using primary social media data, which has been cited in the text and presented .
the appendix, the reactions of a sample of recruits can be analysed to provide an insight into the
online material’s radicalising effects.

Recruit Reaction

While the motivations for foreign fighters have been shown to differ over time, a consistent
theme promulgated by rebels groups and supporters has been that of injustice, both against
Muslims as a whole and towards the Syrian people from the Assad regime, and the subsequent
need to protect them. This has fuelled radical jihadist propaganda, which has used the draconian
tactics of the Syrian state to instil powerful and compelling feelings of shame, humiliation, and

‘ unworthiness in the minds of recruits. ,

The reaction from recruits can be explained using /raming theory. The theory focuses on the
socialization, attraction and mobilization of supporters via the construction of a collective
identity.*” Events are framed through an ‘interpretative schemata’ which groups such as IS use to
“locate, perceive, identify and label occurrences within their life space and the world at large.”?®
Tarrow describes a three stage process stresses in which frames form around social occurrences
of injustice.*° First, a diagnostic frame is introduced that outlines problems as unjust and
attributes blame; second, groups create a prognostic frame that proposes potential tactics and
strategies to confront the previously diagnosed problem; finally, the group creates a persuasive,
motivational rationale to prompt action. oe

36 From the IS central leadership comes six media ‘foundations’ that have thirty-five provincial offices across the

Maghreb and the Levant. See Winter (2015), p. 15.
7 Tarrow, S., Power in Movement: Social Movements and Contentious Politics, New York, Cambridge University

Press, 3rd Ed., 2011, pp. 141-156 .
38 Benford, R.D. & Snow, D., ‘Framing Processes and Social Movements: An Overview and Assessments’ Annual

” Review of Sociology Vol. 26, 2000, p. 614
39 Tarrow (2011), p. 145
 Thid., p. 145

11
000199

000102
Document Released Under the Access to
[Discunabnt Reteadodcundenthe Ages tovertu
driderhation Abd Gscartiett divalgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 Vinformation

In this instance, the grievance coagulates around the “intra-Sunni solidarity norm” as described
by Hegghammer.*! The norm creates an inclination to support “fellow Muslims in need” and
since being reinterpreted from a collective duty to an individual duty by Abdullah Azzam in the
lead up to the Afghan-Soviet war,” has been consistently repeated by ideologues since the first
throws of the Revolution.” This theme has remained prevalent in Islamic State’s current
propaganda. Victimhood is identified by Winter as one of the six core themes found within the
broader strategy.“ The video circulated of the death of the Jordanian pilot Muadh al Kasabeh,
edited together with sequences of coalition airstrikes to illustrate retributive violence

_ theologically justified by gisas, is a notable example. Scores of similar messaging can be
found on the Internet, employing highly emotive terminology referencing persecution,
oppression, injustice, and sexual violence.

In many cases, militant groups operating on the ground have referenced this themselves. An
Australian foreign fighter with Islamic State featured in a video explaining the frame of mind
that led him to migrate — or make hijrah — to Syria. In a video specifically aimed at Western and
English-speaking Muslims, he said:

“What am I doing? I have a good life here [in Australia]. I have a good job. I have an _
income. I have a car. I have a house. What sacrifice have I done for the sake of Allah? I
can't think of anything. All these nights we sleep comfortably [in the West], I thought
about the people overseas and in the Muslim lands who are suffering, and this is when
my journey really started beginning.”

This passage touches upon a number of common themes that are noticeable among all of the
British fighters in our sample prior to their departure for Syria. The pains of inaction suffered by
a particular fighter typically consist of three constituent components, or frames, which drive their
radicalisation and desire to mobilise - moral outrage (diagnostic), frustration with the inadequacy
of non-violent activism (prognostic), and a belief in the need for decisive action to defend the
ummah (motivational rationale). Fighters tend to pass through all these emotional phases before
feeling compelled to act — in this case, by joining militant groups in Syria.”

Moral outrage

“! Hegghammer, T., ‘Syria’s Foreign Fighters’, Foreign Policy, December 9", 2013, last accessed on August 26°,
2015 at http://foreignpolicy.com/2013/12/09/syrias-foreign-fighters/
2 See Hegghammer (2010/2011)
“3 From as early as 2012, Saudi cleric Sheikh Mohammed al-Arifi, began issuing calls to jihad, particular to the
West. See “Isis: Meet the cleric ‘encouraging British Muslims’ to fight jihad”, Channel 4 News, YouTube, June 26"
2014, last accessed August 26", 2015 at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qnpfsr9p7n4 &feature=youtu.be
“ Winter (2015), p. 25
* ‘Healing of the believers’ chests”, al-Furqan Foundation, February 32015
46 «Stories from the land of the living: the story of Abu Khalid al-Cambodi from Australia," Al-Hayat Media, 21
April 2015 ;
7 See Appendix; Figure

12

000200

000103
Document Released Under the Access to

DUeUaHE RésaEbe UHHE ine AuaHESr vertu
inifolinetion ACE DBS uMenUIMAYGE en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a linformation

There has been widespread revulsion over the manner, shape, and form of President Bashar al-
Assad’s attempts to suppress the Syrian uprising. This has permeated all sections of society, from
individual actors, to human rights organisations up to the official pronouncements of Western
governments. Among potential foreign fighters this has been coupled potently with a sense of
personal obligation, responsibility, and guilt. Ali Kalantar was an 18-year-old student from
Coventry who travelled to Syria in March 2014 in order to join Islamic State. Having reposted a
number of images of the violence and suffering being bestowed upon innocent civilians,” a few
weeks before his departure, Kalantar posted a nasheed (islamic song) ¢ to Facebook, which
revealed his growing sense of moral outrage at the situation in Syria.“ The nasheed’s lyrics state:

“Oh my Ummah listen carefully because everything looks vague,

Their bombs are thrown over us like poison

And we have no sincere or honest friend,

My son was shot in cold blaad with no one to comfort or console me,

Oh my father they stabbed you just as one drinks a sip of water,

Tuba (a tree of paradise) is your home where there's no misery

Oh my mother stop crying, your religion is rising up,

I’m asking Allah to end this suffering and send down his soldiers (just as ‘it)
rains.’

“This is amazing,” Kalantar declared. Feeling a sense of obligation or duty towards the suffering
of other Muslims is an intellectual process that has taken root in some Muslim communities
through identification with an ‘ummah consciousness.’*! This argues that all Muslims are united
through a fraternity of the faithful, owing one another support, loyalty, and allegiance,
particularly in times of turmoil or oppression.

That narrative has resonated especially loudly in the Syrian context. Mehdi Hasan, a foreign
_ fighter who travelled from Portsmouth to join Islamic State, explained his reasons for going by
referencing the use of sexual violence against those held prisoner by President Assad’s forces.
“There is a prison in Halab [Aleppo] with 300 female prisoners who are raped daily,” he
explained. “Some are pregnant and many have e given birth. There are many of these prisons
scattered over Syria. This is one small reason.”"* By 2015, such pronouncements would be met
with incredulity given the Islamic State’s systematic use of rape and sexual slavery as a standard
practice and tool of oppression. 5

8 See Appendix; Figures 2, 3.
* lj Al Farsi, Facebook profile, 19 February 2014. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by

ICSR.

* ‘SYRIA - Very Powerful Emotional Nasheed,’ YouTube, 18 December 2012
5! See Roy, O., Globalized Islam: The Search For A New Ummah, London: Hurst & Co, 2004; Kepel, G., Jihad. the
trail of; political Islam, London: 1.B. Tauris & Co, 2006

® Abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by ICSR.
53 Callimachi, R., ‘ISIS enshrines a theology of rape’, New York Times, August 13", 2015, accessed August 26°,
2015, http://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/ 14/world/middleeast/isis-enshrines-a-theology-of-rape.. btm!

13

000201

000104
Document Released Under the Access to
DécumedntiRatdasdd Uindenthbvabpesstovertu
thfoniation Adhé Becdniianbdivalgot an vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

é

The de facto leader of the Portsmouth group, twenty-three year old Ifthekar Jaman, repeatedly
expressed his anger at the scale and urgency of the humanitarian crisis unfolding in the Levant.
Jaman also wrote about how «children were suffering” and of a “genocide” being conducted
against the Muslims of Syria. “May Allah make it easy for all the o; oppressed Muslims,” he
wrote weeks before his departure. “May Allah bring a saviour soon.””° The group had grown
increasingly frustrated with local imams who they felt were both unable and unqualified to
adequately understand the situation in Syria. They took to the Internet to find alternative answers
and listen to speeches from the Saudi cleric Mohammed al-Arifi, among others. Again, Arifi’s
invectives are laden with highly emotive references to issues of honour, masculinity, and
personal duty. The pronouncements drive a sense of righteous obligation borne of moral outrage:

“No Muslim should accept to see a dear Muslim woman who was brought up on the
Quran and Hijab being grappled and forcefully taken to the bedroom of a brutal tyrant.
Which man can sleep or have his tears drop or feel a peace of mind while he hears of
such circumstances befalling our Brothers and Sisters?””” .

Recruits ultimately begin to feel guilty about the relative comfort and security of their lives in
Western society when contrasted against the suffering of Muslims abroad. In July 2013 another
British fighter from Hounslow, Ismail Jabber, wrote a lengthy post on Facebook that focused on
the plight of the ummah. He wrote that he was in a “Bilad ash-Sham [land of Syria] state of
mind,” while chastising Muslims in the West for letting their material comforts distract them
from the suffering of the Syrian people.” In a subsequent message, Jabbar internalises this guilt
and argues that he feels like a “coward” for “sleeping cosy” while Muslim women are subject to
sexual violence around the world.*? Although this was still quite some time before Jabber finally
migrated to Syria, he did embark on a more activist phase at this point, raising funds for
humanitarian purposes. 6

Although the process of Jabbar’s radicalisation was as principally driven by the conflict in Syria,
his sense of moral outrage and duty was not limited to events there. His horizons were global,
expanding to encompass any number of different scenarios where Mustims are believed to be
under attack. “I’m done with everyone and everything,” he wrote.*! A similarly global outlook is
evident in the online expressions of Mehdi Hasan and Ifthekar Jaman, along with another British
fighter, Aseel Muthana, from Cardiff. All expressed their concern at Muslim suffering in Gaza,
Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, Afghanistan, Kashmir, and Guantanamo Bay. “While your [sic] in bed,
reflect on those tortured in Guantanamo and OUR brothers and sisters in OUR lands being raped
and killed,” Muthana wrote.” That it considers itself a protective warden of the global ummah is

* Tfthekar Jaman Skype interview with Shiraz Maher, senior research fellow at ICSR (interview governed by
research ethics application: REP (WSG)/13/14-10)
58 «, Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 19 February 2013. Full profile archived in full.
56 Ithekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 22 February 2013. Full profile archived in full.
57 arifi, M., ‘Syria we will fight with you,’ YouTube, posted March 20 2012, last accessed on August 26", 2015 at
https: iforw. youtube.com/watch?v=oiY WEA yF W3E
;, Waran Aki'law, Facebook, July 2013. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by ICSR.
* Waran Aki’law, Facebook, August 2", 2013
© Waran Aki’ law, Facebook, 2 August 2013
$1 Thid., (2013)
® Abu Faris (@abufarriss), Twitter, November 2013

14

000202

000105
Document Released Under the Access to

ipisenndionrbnde RacuRpentnlb nus nvertu
thidanbatian AGE? GacarheHe HivaIuUS en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

practical as well as theological; representing itself as a state with the ability to project power
around the world (through its proxies) is a crucial aspect of justifying ‘its legitimacy.

Inadequacy of Non-Violent Activism

Feelings of anger and outrage regarding the humanitarian crisis in Syria have been fuelled by the
‘supposed indifference of the international community.™ This can be thought of as ‘radicalisation
" by omission,’ where the expectation of international assistance has failed to materialise.
Ifthekar Jaman was dismayed by what he considered a derogation of duty from Muslim rulers
towards the Muslims of Syria. “Why haven’t the Saudi government sent their armies to support
the Syrians?” he asked. “Why are the Saudi government quietly on the side while the ummah is
suffering?”™ Their apparent indifference towards the Syrians led him to conclude, “the Saudi
government are the worst examples.”*” ,

In this case individual agents feel a greater sense of personal responsibility and obligation to take
‘matters into their own hands, engaging in a form of vigilante militarism. “Sorry to say, but
sending cereal does not stop this brutality,” wrote Mehdi Hasan shortly after arriving in Syria.
“A bullet to the head is far more effective.” Ifthekar Jaman was more sober in his assessment,
recognising the virtue of charity ~ albeit in limited form. “Ya ikhwaani [oh brothers], give
charity as much as you can,” he urged his twitter followers. “But don’t think you’ve done your
duty. Charity doesn’t prevent a tank, you do.” :

The corollary is clear - while Muslims can give to charity, they should not consider this as
sufficient to discharge their obligations towards the Syrian people. Their duties go further
because the current situation is unbearable and the status quo can neither reverse nor adequately
address the humanitarian suffering. Non-violent activism is therefore out-dated and needs to be
replaced with a more direct form of confrontation.

Need for Effective Action

Primed with sufficient outrage but disillusioned with the prevailing political climate, radicalised
individuals conclude that the only solution available to them is to become fighters. This not only
makes a tangible and practical change to the problem, as they perceive it, but is also a decision

§3 Winter, C., ‘How the Islamic State makes sure you pay attention to it’, War on the Rocks, February 12%, 2015,
accessed August 26", 2015, http://warontherocks.com/201 $/02/how-the-islamic-state-makes-sure-you-pay-attention-
to-it/
«The World’s pitiful response to Syria’s refugee crisis’, Amnesty International, December 5* 2014, last accessed
August 26, 2015 https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/news/2014/12/world-s-pitiful-response-syria-s-refugee-crisis/
The opposite might be thought of as ‘radicalisation by commission,’ that is, for example, radicalisation caused by
our participation in the Iraq war.
> Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 6 February 2013

Ibid.
8 Abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014
 Igthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 17 July 2013; See Appendix; Figure 4 _

15
“000203

000106
Document Released Under the Access to
[Diecumtinn Rated Ser Unidar ttle Wieeese toe tu
dnfomhation Act? Bock tiehtdivaigué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

believed to be invested with unparalleled virtues and divine rewards.” Quite often these
decisions to join militant groups are also bound up with notions of masculinity and valour.”! As
Deeyah Khan notes, modem media tends to provide a message for men of heroism that is defined
through “control, independence and the ability to commit violence, from superheroes to crime
dramas.””” An interplay occurs between respect and fear — those that feel disrespected want to be
feared. This is summed up in a tweet from Ali Kalantar: - “running away from jihad will not save
you from death. You can die as a coward or you can die as a martyr.””? Ismail Jabber expressed
similar sentiments, writing, “the -ummah i is bleeding and now its time to findbout [sic] who are
the lions, cats ‘and snakes [sic]. n74

For Mehdi Hasan, it no longer made sense to remain in the United Kingdom. He felt obligated to
be in Syria and had come to regard Britain as a country where it was impermissible for Muslims
to live permanently.” > Instead, his loyalty was now owed to the “micro Caliphates” established
all over the world.’° His decision to migrate to Syria was also mixed with a degree of fatalism,
stemming from normative Islamic belief that an individual’s lifespan is predestined and fixed.”
As Kalantar argued, “running away from jihad will not save you from death.” As the moment is
already fixed, a true believer should migrate to the battlefields not only to demonstrate their
faith, but to also relieve the suffering of the ummah. Mehdi Hasan explained this clearly in a

' Facebook post arguing, “I’m gonna do my best to help ppl [sic], my death is written. Ifthekar
fought his first battle after 5 months in jihad and got shadah [martyrdom] whilst an azeri bro
fought in jihad for 15 years and he got shadah in the same battle.””®

Ifthekar Jaman also wrote extensively on how the pains of inaction involved missing out on the
supposed rewards of a holy warrior and martyr. “The gates of jannah [paradise] will be so
amazing that you would stand in awe for years admiring its beauty,” he wrote. “This is just the
gates. Now imagine jannah, with the small imagination we have been given, waterfalls from high
skies, valleys with the most beautiful plants, mountains.””” Jaman frequently reminded his
readers about the virtuous of jihad, martyrdom, and the nirvana of paradise. Ismail Jabber went ©
further by expressing his guilt at failing to act, feeling that the longer he avoided jihad, the more
jahil (or ignorant) he was becoming. His use of the term jahil is particularly relevant here
because it refers to the idolatrous and polytheistic state of pre-Islamic Arabia, generally held by
Muslims to have been an era of spiritual darkness and-moral decay. “I’ve seen light and [yet]
become jahil,” Jabber wrote. “But this time I’m going to the light even if it has to burn me.””” It
is clear that Jabber was wrestling with the various phases of his radicalisation — the sense of duty,

7 See Appendix; Figure 5

7! See Appendix; Figure 6

7” Khan, D, ‘Jihad Masculinity’, Huffington Post Blog, July 10" 2015, last accessed August 26" 2015, at
“huff st.co.uk/deeyah- ihad-deeyah-khan_b_7770578,html

2 ” Ali Kalanar (RandomGuy WithASuit/@AIiAl!farsiii), Twitter, 29 October 2014
74 Waran Aki? law, Facebook, 16 November 2013
75 ,, Mehdi Hasan (@AbuDujana), Twitter, 25 August 2013

"6 Thid., 22 November 2012
7 See Watt, W., ‘Free Will and Predestination in Early Islam’, The Muslim World, Vol. 36, No. 2, 1946, pp. 124-

152. Also see Appendix; Figure 7
7 Abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014
a, Hthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 27 January 2013
80 Waran Aki’ law, Facebook, 2 August 2( 2013

16
000204

000107
Document Released Under the Access to

USE, se tu
Feliu pce tte viligue en vertu

de la Loi sur Facoés 4 l'information

moral compulsion, frustration, and pain of inaction, versus social, emotional, and familial
pressures to stay. Yet, within two months of deciding he would have to “go to the light,” Jabber
was fighting in Syria.

The effect that events in Syria and Iraq, projected through improvised and startling propaganda
materials, have had on our sample of foreign fighters’ desire to travel to the Levant is clear. It is
not enough to affect the decision to travel however. Through an exposition of what this report
describes as fighting communities, the next section will illustrate how the online interactions
within and between peer groups of recruits and fighters creates a stake in the conflict, thus
cementing the decision to travel in the recruit’s mind.

y

17
000205

000108
Document Released Under the Access to

IBoounbnt Reteabed Under tisvigvess toc

defarinalisa Ach ecuitent diatlgué en vertu
de fa Loi sur faceés a |'information

Fighting Communities

The previous chapter illustrates how the cumulative effects of interactions with online
propaganda create pains of inaction among recruits. This creates a moral crisis that has a
profound effect on their desire to mobilise. A second activity that this report argues contributes
towards radicalisation, specifically the decision to mobilise, is interaction within fighting
communities made up of recruits and fighters already in theatre.

Using modem information technology and continually evolving social media platforms, foreign
fighters and recruits can, for the first time, interact with each other directly in real time. Rather
than relying on the writings, audio recordings and video lectures of learned but inaccessible
ideologues, recruits can now receive wisdom and encouragement directly and on a personalised
basis. This unprecedented accessibility allows recruits to build a stake in the conflict, connecting
with fighters before seeking to emulate them. Using social media data, again cited in text and
presented in the appendix, this chapter will illustrate how these fighting communities are created,
how they operate and how the dynamics within them contribute towards radicalisation of the
recruit. .

Platforms

The research has identified two strands of interaction that occur within these fighting
communities, which this report categorises as anonymous and public. The platforms used provide
the fighter with the opportunity to proselytise his group’s message while giving personal advice
and guidance to recruits. These are not mutually exclusive interactions, however they are at times
distinctive within the data. ,

The anonymous strand is the interaction of recruits and fighters through platforms with
anonymity functions, the most prevalent of which is Ask.fm. This platform asks users to set up
an account, provide a name/alias and a short biography, for which the individual decides upon
the level of discretion shown. Users then receive questions from anonymous contributors; once
the user has responded, both the question and the answer are posted onto the users timeline,
concealing the identity of the questioner and providing a rolling commentary. Given the nature
of the platform, it is the strand most commonly used by fighters to give advice across a range of
topics. ;

The public strand involves the interactions of potential and actual foreign fighters over platforms
that are open, in which all participants are identified through their usernames and the personal
information they have provided. The most commonly utilised platform for this has been Twitter.
Twitter does have a privacy function, however none of the fighters in our sample had utilised it.
This is logical; for the foreign fighter, messaging over open platforms is ‘framing’ in itself.
Openly flaunting violent and ‘illegal’ activity is a central tenet to the identity of the foreign
fighter, and a common behaviour for an individual actively trying to disavow the West.

Anonymous Interaction

18

000206

000109
Document Released Under the Access to

Infge@uitisnr tae Rast Tadd ANY Aue ee Yer
da rifbbrAatbh AAS Bbulhl Bué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés & l'information

Our findings go against conventional wisdom. Based on our research, it was peers — not
propaganda — that convinced the British fighters in our sample to go to Syria. The social media
campaigns of militant groups like Islamic State may have been important but not decisive.

This does not mean that the internet didn’t matter. Open-source, widely accessible content -
contributed to people’s sense of guilt and helplessness. Virtual contacts with active fighters made
them have a stake and, in many cases, created a strong sense of social obligation. Ultimately,
however, it wasn’t the online environment as such — but the extent to which it created peer to
peer contacts — that facilitated the decision to go.

The report begins with a chapter contrasting the Islamic State’s social media campaign with the
ways in which British foreign fighters have actually used online communications. This is
followed by three small chapters describing the key dynamics and processes that we believe are
significant: the first deals with the ‘pains of action’ caused by the prolonged exposure to, and
involvement with, conflict related content; the second looks at ‘fighting communities’ involving
wannabe and actual fighters; and, finally, we examine the back and forth between on- and offline
communications that tends to precede, and facilitate, the decision to go to Syria.

We are confident that our report makes an important contribution to the fast evolving field of
research on online radicalisation. It builds on, and develops, long-established notions like Doug
‘McAdam’s ‘high risk activism’® and Mare Sageman’s ‘sense of moral outrage’,? while rejecting
the increasingly popular idea that it is the internet — and the internet alone — that radicalizes
people. To paraphrase Mark Juergensmeyer, the internet is not the problem, but aspects of it may
well be problematic.’°

® Doug McAdam, ‘Recruitment to High-Risk Activism: The Case of Freedom Summer’, American Journal of

Sociology, 92(1) (1986), pp. 64-90.
° Marc Sageman, Leaderless Jihad: Terror Networks in the Twenty-First Century. (Philadelphia, PA: University of

Pennsylvania Press, 2008), pp. 73-6.
1° See Mark Juergensmeyer, ‘Religion as a Cause of Terrorism’ in Louise Richardson (ed.}, The Roots of Terrorism

(London and New York: Routledge, 2006), pp. 133-144.

000009

000011
Document Released Under the Access to

[Doonan Relbadie: Under me daveseteertu

daforhetion Act¢Becuiietadailgod en vertu
de la Lot sur faccas a information .

With regard the anonymous strand, given the sheer volume of data collected, a complete
identification of every topic was not possible.®*! The research identified topics that separate into |
two broad categories, both of which illuminate the role that the fighter plays in the community —
advice and inspiration. Advice falls into hijrah and non-hijrah related topics, both of which are
important. Hijrah related enquiries include the permissibility of female mobilisation, finances,
logistics of travel and fighting experience.** Non- -hijrah related advice tends to cover topics in
which the contributor has identified a lack of guidance in navigating everyday domestic issues
from schooling to personal loans.®°

Inspiration is a nebulous category in which recruits look to relate with the actual fighters on
more emotive terms. This can be through requests for spiritual and moral support on matters such
as mitigating against family reaction to migration and killin ing fellow Muslims, to at times just
sharing affection i in ways synonymous with ‘ in-group | love.’

Public Interaction

The public strand of interactions offers a different perspective on the importance of contacts

between fighters and recruits. The fighter becomes a chameleon of different personas, from the
missionary jihadist to the devoted martyr. In all the cases collected, members of the sample are

seen interacting with other members of the sample, some of whom have already made hijrah.In- sy
some cases, a progression and intensification of views is visible, and at other times not. Other
interactions shown here are between fighters both of whom have already travelled. Interaction

done openly such as this sends an empowering message to recruits and thus needs to be included.

e Mashadhur Choudhary and Ifthekar Jaman

Mashadhur Choudhury was a member of the ‘Portsmouth cluster’ of fighters who travelled at
different times to Syria in 2013. Choudhary is the only member of the sample to have been
arrested, charged and sentenced to four years in prison on his return from Syria, and thus more
knowledge of his trajectory is known. According to court documents, plans to travel developed
during the summer of 2013, culminating in his departure in the October.® His interlocutor was
Ifthekar Jaman, also in our sample, who had travelled to the region in May 2013. Choudhury ~
only remained in the Levant for two weeks before allegedly being rejected as a recruit. Thus his
Ask.fm and his twitter do not reflect his time in theatre.

‘

®! Over ten thousand unique inquiries, stored by the ICSR in full, were collected and stored in the database. This
dissertation did not have the scope to code the entire dataset.
® All of the interactions are reproduced with the original spelling and grammatical errors. See Appendix; Figures 8,
9.
3 Appendix; Figures 10, 11 .

Sageman identifies love for the in-group as a strong motivating factor in the decision to commit violence. See
Sageman, M., Understanding Terror Networks, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania University Press, 2004, See Appendix;

Figures 12, 13.

*$ Casciani, D., ‘Mashadhur Choudhary: Serial liar and jihadist’, BBC News, May 20" 2014, accessed August 26",
2015 at http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-2749 1066

19

000207

000110
Document Released Under the Access to

nBuouniont Relédeeauwaael tiauceey telly

dntareidden Aeer Soauiieateneligne on vertu
de la Lol sur l'accés a linformation

His twitter account is a valuable example of online interactions with actual fighters however,

' illustrating the offline interactions that were taking place in the lead up to his departure, which
will be focused on more in the next chapter. His online interaction with fellow members of the
Portsmouth cluster was an inevitable result of their friendship. With Jaman, they range from the
banal matters of arranging meeting times at their mosque, debates and disagreement, and
indications of potentially making hijrah.”

e Aseel Muthana

Aseel Muthana, along with his brother‘Nasser Muthanna, were two fighters from Cardiff who
came to have associations with the Portsmouth cluster. Aseel’s early twitter interactions
demonstrate an interest in foreign fighters months before making hijrak. During the month of
November, Aseel retweeted or interacted with five different foreign fighters, one of which was
his brother Nasser. Four of those fighters originate from the UK while the other, Abu Fulan, was
Danish.*’ In November he reached out to Abu Qa’qaa, a fighter from the UK, seeking a link to
his Tumblr blog ‘Paladin of Jihad’ which documented his transition from recruit to fighter and
his subsequent experiences in the Levant.” As his tweets show, Aseel was an active twitter
contributor within the milieu he became apart of.*°

Und ding the D amics

The dynamics within the fighting community that contribute towards the decision to mobilise can
be conceptualised on two levels. The macro level describes the broader effects the new media
ecology on the socialisation of individuals, in this instance recruits interested in becoming
foreign fighters. The micro level describes the effects that increased accessibility to foreign
fighters has on the recruit’s attitudes towards the conflict and the responsibilities he has towards
his fellow Muslims.

The New Media Ecology

The phrase ‘Web 2.0’ is commonly cited in the literature on online radicalisation and refers to
the World Wide Web’s transition during the new millennium into the second generation, a space
that now “encompasses a growing array of interactive communications systems facilitated by a
rapidly expanding set of platforms."” The period gave birth to the platforms that we recognise
today — “numerous websites, blogs, forums and message boards”®'— while laying the foundation
for the most modern iterations of apps and instant messaging services that have seamlessly

a6 wore Appendix; Figures 14, 15, 16

® See Appendix; Figures 17, 18
® This blog is catalogued in full by the ICSR. See Appendix; Figure 19
® See Appendix; Figures 20, 21
3 Amble, J.C., "Combating terrorism in the new media environment”, Studies in Conflict and Terrorism 35(5),
2012, p. 339

! Ducol, B., “Uncovering the French-speaking Jihadisphere: An exploratory analysis", Media, War and Conflict
Vol. 5(1), 2012, p. 51

20

000208

000111
Document Released Under the Access to

Infguaatiant Rbrebosd URS KElAueds 8
deédfobPiatidh RecracoLtTeNiAgus en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information _

interwoven into our “new media ecology.” Social media, as Haidt notes, makes it
“extraordinarily easy to join crusades, express solidarity and outrage, and shun traitors.”
Facebook was founded in 2004, for example; this means that the first wave of students who spent
their formative years using the ¢ platform are now reaching early adulthood, the prime
demographic for mobilisation.” Haidt goes on to argue that these first true “social-media
natives” are different in how they share and engage with friends over moral judgments, news
stories, and pro-social endeavours compared the previous generation, whose dominant
technology was television.**

This has undoubtedly affected their socialisation. For Shapiro and Margolin, ‘standing out’ i.e.
developing an identity while pursuing autonomy, and ‘fitting in’ i.e. finding acceptance from
peers through comfortable affiliations, are the paradoxical yet crucial tasks in an individuals
social development during adolescents.” For the authors, this clearly intersects in the modern
age with the use of these platforms, relating to adolescents social connectivity and identity
development more so than previous communications technologies. For Shapiro and Margolin,
sociability, self-esteem and the nature of the SNS feedback act as important potential
moderators, affectin cting the identity creation of the individual as well as the development of the
offline interactions.

A new report the Pew Research Centre that explored the “new contours of friendship in the
digital age” supports these findings.” Rather than the traditional perception that teenagers are in
some way wasting time online, the study indicates not just that new relationships are being
created but that offline, real world friendships are being strengthened. This appears to follow a
broader sociological trend that teenagers are spending less time face-to-face and that the online
world provides a space for them to ‘hang-out’ more.” One of the authors, Lenhart, claimed that
“many teenagers can’t choose to go and physically be with their friends. ..any number of things
may contribute to teenagers having fewer opportunities to gather physically than they once did,
from changes in drivers’ licensing to genuinely unsafe neighbourhoods to a parental perception
that allowing a teenager the freedom to roam freely by bike or on foot is less safe than it was in

 

% See Awan, A. et al., Radicalisation and Media: Connectivity and terrorism in the new media ecology, Routledge,
Oxford, 2011.

- % Haidt, J., Lukianoff, G., ‘The Coddling of the American Mind’, The Atlantic, September 2015, last accessed
August 264 2015, http: Liwww. theatlantic. com/magazine/archive/2015/09/the-coddling-of- the-american-
mind/399356/

35 og Did. (2015)

% Shapiro, L.A.S, Margolin, G., ‘Growing Up Wired: Social Networking Sites and Adolescent Psychosocial
Development’, Clinical Child Family Psychological Review, (17), 2014, p. 1
57 Thid. (2014)
98 Lenhart, A. et al, ‘Teens, Technology & Friendships: Video games, social media and mobile phones play an
integral role in how teens meet and interact with friends’, Pew Research Centre, ner 2015, accessed August
26", 2015, http: ewinte a Fri . 2.
® Thid. (2015)

 

21
000209

000112
Document Released Under the Access to

InacurtientAReéleGeed bindécthalGodess tertu

ddiifotroation aetASectingntdituigué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

" the past.’!° “The online space is a way of e: expanding teenagers’ ability to be with friends when
they aren’t able to be with them in person.”

From the perspective of radicalisation, this behaviour creates online milieus that act as echo
chambers in which interactions based on ‘in-group love’ and/or ‘out-group hate’ can build
powerful social bonds, especially in the case of violent extremism. Brewer notes that equilibrium
is achieved through “identification with distinctive social groups that meet both needs
simultaneously. Inclusion needs are satisfied by assimilation within the group while
differentiation is satisfied by intergroup distinctions.”! To devolve to violence is an attempt to
earn acceptance, respect and ultimately love within the group one is attempting to identify with.
Another dynamic, provided by McCauley and Moskalenko and reiterated by Sageman, is that of
the ‘tisky shift.” When a group initially begins to form, there i is an increased level of agreement,
and a ‘shift’ in opinion from the moderate to the extreme.!™ Sageman expands on this theory by
focusing in on the level of the individual. Extremists, he argues, radicalise in order to attain
identity within the "clique" rather than due to ideology or ‘out-group’ animosity. Grievances
within the clique become amplified, bonds become stronger and values become more insular and
rejectionist towards the outside world.!™

All of this evidence chimes with the experiences of the recruits in our sample. Each recruit had © ©
significant social media footprints, indicating a large amount of time spent online, and used the
mediums to expand their social circles. It was through Twitter, for example, that the Manchester
duo of Abu Qa’qaa and Raphael Hostey came across Ifthekar Jaman and the Portsmouth cluster,
with whom they would subsequently meet and receive tazkiyyah.! °5 Tam Hussein, writing about
the West London fighter Fatlum Shakalu, noted this about the group from which he’ emerged,
that is applicable to each of the clusters in our sample:

“The [online/offline] connections they were making, the culture they were creating...they
had their own terminology, they wore their Salafi-Jihadism on their robes, blended it
with rebellious Roadmannism, garnished it with a bit of Anwar Awlaki, Quran, Sunnah
and a bit of thug life. They could yearn desperately for forgiveness and paradise, and in
their youthful ardour want a sense of belonging and adventure. 1106 /

Building a Stake in the Conflict

 

1 Dell’ Antonia, K.J., ‘Teenagers Leading Happy, C Connected Lives Online’, The New York Times, August 6°, 2015,
last accessed August 26%, 2015 at http://parenting. blogs.nytimes. com/2015/08/06/teenagers-leading-happy- :
connected-lives-online/
yor oy Did. (2015)

2 Brewer, M. B., ‘In-group Identification and Conflict: When does In-group Love Become Out-group Hate’,
In Social Identity, Intergroup Conflict, and Conflict Reduction, ed. by Ashmore, E., et al., Oxford: OUP, 2001, p. 43
13 McCauley, M., & Moskalenko, S., "Mechanisms of Political Radicalization," Terrorism and Political Violence,
Vol. 20, 2008, p. 421

10 Sageman, M., "The Next Generation of Terror,” Foreign Policy, Vol. 165, 2008, p. 41
105 This is further explained in Chapter Three.
108 Hussein (2015)

22

000210

000113
Document Released Under the Access to

Iniecontiot Relddesa unast thy saeanuertu
“dinfarbeitteit Ager Beeuritat aieuigae en vertu
de la Loi sur Faceés a l'information

This section looks to further the work of Brachman and Levine with regard the relationship
between jihadist ideologues and potential radicals by arguing that the foreign fighter represents
the progression of a dynamic they first identified in 2011.1’ Consider this quote from their 2011
article ‘You Too Can Be Awlaki’:

Youth who are seeking role models need someone who is easier to emulate, a figure that
they can become without too much work or thought, and who makes them feel as if they
are producing something meaningful and relevant!

While capturing the essence of the recruit’s psychology, the quote is not related to foreign
fighters but the relationship between online jihadist activists, a nuanced and important difference.
Originally, the interactions between jihadist ideologues and recruits were of a style befitting that
of producer and consumer - the ‘heavy-weight’ ideologues such as Abdullah Azzam and Abu
Muhammed al-Magdisi produced literature and speeches that were disseminated around the
world for potential jihadists to read and listen to. The ideologues thus relied on interlocutors to
connect them with the their global audience. The Committee for Advice and Reform, for
example, was Osama Bin Laden’s pressure grou; up based in London that printed and provided
materials to would-be jihadists across the UK.'"? Given the decentralised nature of the
transnational jihadist network, especially with the emergence of Al Qaeda, the culture of contact
and accessibility to the most influential ideologues was non-existent.

The advent of this interface has ‘had a profound effect on the relationship between the ideologue
and the potential jihadist and paved the way for the creation of the ‘Celebrity Shaykh.”!!° The
original ideologues were learned scholars with high levels of legitimacy but low levels of
accessibility. That is not to say that the advent of information technologies affected their
influence - far from it.'!! However, the face of jihadism did begin to change. Younger, more -

’ technologically savvy preachers were able to substitute theological and scholarly depth with
charisma and translatability. Soon, potential jihadists could follow these ideologues online,
watch and read their material and seek to emulate them in a way not previously possible.’ 13 They
could also interact with fellow enthusiasts in password-protected forums and chat-rooms, whose
influence on radicalisation has been well established in the literature.!!

The most prominent example of this trend us Anwar al-Awlaki, arguably the most influential
English language propagandist of his generation.’ Brachman and Levine note a number of

 

‘7 Brachman, J.M., Levine, A.N., “You Too Can Be Awlaki!’, The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, Vol. 35, No. 1,
Winter 2011, pp. 25-46 ;
°8 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 30
1 See Curtis, M., Secret Affairs: Britain’s Collusion with Radical Islam, London: Serpent's Tail, 2012.
100 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 29
m Magdisi, Abu Bak Naji, Osama Bin Laden and Abdullah Azzam remain heavily cited by all Sunni insurgent

groups, regardless of their allegiances.
2 See Meleagrou-Hitchens, A., ‘As American as Apple Pie: How Anwar al-Awlaki became the Face of Western

Jibad’, ICSR: London, 2011
13 See Stevens, T., & Neumann, P., ‘Countering Online Radicalisation: A Strategy for Action,’ ICSR: London,

2009
14 Roshonora Choudhary, for example, sentenced to life in prison for the attempted murder of Steven Pimms MP
for his vote in favour of the Iraq war, cited the lectures of Awlaki as a direct influence in her interviews with police.

23

000211

000114
Document Released Under the Access to

m ii elute Het uque.¢ ehvertu
St ACEI DS Niue en vertu.
‘e {a Loi sur 'accés a eral

factors that contributed towards his accessibility. First was the style of his numerous online
videos, lectures and recordings, “a caricature of previous generations of hard-line Salafi
clerics.”"!* Awlaki lacked the knowledge and expertise of his forbearers, but was perceived as
more authentic than the Sheikhs he looked to emulate.'"® The messages retained the piety but lost
the religiosity, which attracted an audience that lacked the depth of education required to _
appreciate the ‘heavy-weight’ ideologues of previous generations.!"” His “back-to-basics”

approach was also very effective, impacting on both emotional and intellectual levels.''® This
increased accessibility through technology allowed recruits to emulate their ideologues and carry
the momentum of the jihadist movement without the precondition of entrenched theological and
-scholarly legitimacy.

This inverse relationship between scholarly legitimacy and accessibility has reached its zenith
with the advent of modern fighting communities. Actual foreign fighters have become the lightest
of the “lite sheikhs” that Brachman and Levine theorised, the effectiveness of their messaging
and approach a result of the sheer level of accessibility they afford online. An irony is at play
here. In his exhaustive investigation into the mobilisation of Fatlum Shakalu, Hussein notes a
high number of recruits without the required skill set to properly interpret the text. For the “born
again devotee”, alienated from the community and inspired by the disembodied fighter living in

’ the Levant, “no middle man was required to distil that seemingly contradictory mass of Prophetic

sayings and Quranic verses.”!9 -

Referring back to the earlier quote, the primed individuals are looking for “role models” to
emulate; the ease with which these recruits can interact with the actual fighters, who are able to
provide easy answers to difficult questions, builds familiarity trust between the fighter and the
recruit, strengthening the decision of the fighter to travel. While offering the opportunity to
produce actions that are ‘meaningful and relevant’, the communities elicit the characteristics of
the ‘in-group’, echo chambers in which the themes and sentiments intensify and result in
ihcreased chances of radicalisation.

The first two chapters have shown how online interactions can affect the desire and decision of
the recruit to mobilise. The third chapter will argue that the transition from decision to action
cannot be explained with recourse to the Internet, and instead relies on offline interactions within
and between peer groups.

115 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 27
116 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 27
117 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 28
18 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 28
me Hussein (2015)

24
000212
000115
Document Released Under the Access to

Infapeeatiaard Reel iydongesav este

de frrbeenstiod MATDSCUHSAP aN Agué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés & l'information

On and Offline

In July 2015, Syed Choudhary was jailed for plotting to travel to join Islamic State. The
prosecution described how the teenager began researching the conflict online, accessing websites
such as ‘10 reasons to join ISIS’ and ‘Turkey travel, Jihadist Highway.”!”° His lawyer noted that

- Choudhary “was openly using Facebook and Twitter accounts that could link to him to material

_ that was highly incriminating. There appears to be no attempt at all to disguise his involvement °
_ or insulate himself from detection.”!2! Syed’s case can be understood with reference to the last
two chapters, which have sought to demonstrate how online activity can affect the desire and
decision to become a foreign fighter. However, a detail in the case perfectly encapsulates the
argument of this chapter and the driving thesis of the report; when first arrested in December
2014, Choudhary told police that the reason that he had not travelled was because he had not
found anyone trustworthy to travel with.'”” Thus, while the online activity may affect the desire
and decision to travel, overwhelming evidence suggests that the actual mobilisation relies on
offline interactions. Having explained the dynamics behind this mechanism, the chapter will use -
recent historical data to illustrate two key examples in which offline interactions appear central
to the recruit’s transition from decision to action.

Explaining the Dynamics

The dynamics of offline interactions, while not a new phenomenon, represents a key factor in the
practical mobilisation of foreign fighters. While the online fighting commumities help to build a
commitment to the cause through virtual connections, the peer-to-peer relationships are crucial in
facilitating the transition from decision to actual mobilisation. Evidence suggests that this is
practical as well as psychological; resources and logistics become easier to organise in a group
than individually. The same goes for decéption; convincing concerned relatives or friends that
your intentions and actions are benign may become more plausible if part of a small group of
‘trusted’ peers.

This is a trend that has become central to the way that mobilisation has come to be understood.
In America, a minority within the Somali-American population in the suburbs around
Minneapolis have actively facilitated the recruitment of fighters to Islamic State, with the most
recent arrests occurring in mid-April 2015.'7? At least 59 Belgian foreign fighters were affiliated
with Sharia4Belgium, with most originating out of the geographical axis of Antwerp, Mechelen,
" Vilvorde and Brussels.!** Of the eighteen Swedish fighters identified by the Combating
Terrorism Center in 2013, eleven were from two small neighbouring suburbs of Gothenburg —

120 Spillet, R., ‘Teenager who planned to join ISIS in Syria and said ‘all By people should be killed’ is jailed for
more than three years’, Mail Online, July 7*, 2015, accessed August 26" 2015,
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3 152 172/Teenager-planned-join-ISIS-jailed-three-years.html

121 Thid. (2015)

"22 Thid. (2015) . .

3 Johnson, K., & Bacon, J., ‘Six arrested in anti-terrorism sweep, latest in string of such cases’, USA Today, April
20" 2015, accessed August 26" 2015, http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2015/04/19/federal-agents-terror-
sweep-minneapolis-san-diego/26054419/ , ,

124 Van Ostaeyen, P., ‘Belgian Fighters in Syria and Iraq — April 2015,” April 5" 2015, accessed April 26“ 2015, at
https://pietervanostaeyen. wordpress.com/?s=belgian+ foreign+fighters&submit=Search

25
000213

000116
Document Released Under the Access to

deh a Ese ion ee

. dela Loi sur laceés a Linformation

Angered and Bergsjin — leading Magnus Norrell to conclude that recruitment in Sweden
occurred through ties of friendship.'” In discussing Sharia¢Holland, the AIVD concluded that
these movements have created “an environment in which people with similar ideas meet and
develop radical ideas into jihadist ideologies. This group dynamic has led to a rapid
radicalization of many individuals as well as concrete attempts to join the jihad in Syria.”!°

The creation of strong personal bonds is important, for two reasons. Firstly, they facilitate the
first psychological step into “high risk activism” as described by Douglas McAdam.” In
McAdam’s model, the individual first becomes primed through socialisation with friends and
family, making them receptive to new political attitudes. When offline contact with activists
follows, the chances of low-risk activism increases. For the individual to then transition into
high-risk activism, such as mobilisation to fight jihad, ‘biographical availability’ i.e. “the
absence of personal constraints that may increase the costs and risks of movement participation, ©
such as full-time employment, marriage, and family responsibilities” becomes the limiting
factor.'”8 This paper suggests that the intensely existential and emotive nature of the current
conflict affects the extent to which ‘biographical availability’ becomes a limiting factor. Fighters
have shown a willingness to overcome these barriers in unprecedented ways, including uprooting
entire families, including young children and pregnant women, and travelling to Syria.”

The strong personal bonds also create the basis for the potential recruits to receive tazkiyyah.
This is best understood as “reference” or “guarantee” for a prospective fighter that establishes
their sincerity and bona fides. For the individual receiving tazkiyyah it immediately validates
their commitment and standing to a fighting group to whom they would otherwise be entirely
unknown. For the individual providing tazkiyyah it also denotes their trust in, and loyalty
towards, the recipient. Tazkiyyah is provided, therefore, by an actual fighter in support of a
recruit. Militant groups often require these references both as a security requirement to mitigate
against spies, but also to ensure the recruit is devotionally committed.

The underlying element to these dynamics, one that ultimately explains the success or failure of
any relationship, and one that can be illustrated to have been crucial in the recruitment of these
individuals, is trust. Online interactions become limited in this regard; using jihadi web forums
as an example, Hegghammer argues, “the scarcity of non-verbal cues...facilitates deceptive
mimicry which undermines the interpersonal trust for sensitive transactions.” °° While not quite
to the same degree given the more personal nature of the interactions between fighter and recruit,

 

"5 Norrell quote in Gudmondson, P., ‘The Swedish Foreign Fighter Contingent in Syria’, Combating Terrorism
‘ Center Sentinel, September 24% 2013, accessed April 26" 2015, at https://www.ctc.usma.edu/posts/the-swedish-
foreign-fighter-contingent-in-syria
126 “Reisbewegingen jihadistisch terrorisme,” ATVD statement on movements of terrorism, General Intelligence and
Security Service of the Netherlands, September 2013. st. ,
127 McAdam, D., ‘Recruitment to High-Risk Activism: The Case of Freedom Summer,’ American Journal of
Sociology, Volume 92, Issue 1, 1986, pp. 64-90
128 ibid. p. 70
129 Brooks-Pollock, T., ‘Yes we have joined ISIS say missing British family of 12 who fled to Syria’, The
Independent, July 4", 2015, accessed August 26", 2015 http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/yes-we-
have-joined-isis-say-missing-british-family-of-12-who-fled-to-syria-luton-islamic-state-isis-isil-iraq-10365915.htm!
130 Heoshammer, T., ‘Interpersonal Trust on Jihadi Internet Forums’, Norwegian Defence Research Establishment
(FFI) February 19th, 2014, accessed March 19", 2015 http://hegghammer.com/_files/Interpersonal_trust.pdf.

26

000214
000117
Document Released Under the Access to

nigenAlinn Reléddea neat Ha keuesn ert
enfarhtitist At? Boeunidatercigue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

trust reaches a threshold without face-to-face interactions. Merari advances the argument,
claiming that trust precipitates violence. The decision to commit an extreme act of violence, for
example a suicide bombing, is a result of the desire to gain social credibility within the group.'?!
Love for both the group and the cause, in this case the protection of the ummah, explains the
desire and decision to violently mobilise.

Using evidence procured through social media analysis and news coverage, three examples stand
out as illustrating the importance of offline contacts — the Coventry Cluster, the Portsmouth and
Manchester Network, and the West London Cluster.

The Data
Overview of British Fighters

Before illustrating two examples of how clusters work in facilitating travel, a brief glance at the
total number of British fighters collected provides some inferences that support the thesis and
while countering the ‘internet causality’ explanation. Of the 123 British fighters in the database
for whom information could be procured, fifty-seven fighters travelled with or knew at least one
other fighter before mobilising. This supports the thesis in two ways. First is the obvious case
that evidence of individuals travelling in group’s supports the offline interaction thesis. Second,
that information of the travel plans for the other sixty-six could not be procured through open
source methods suggests that they were not avid users of social media, thus negating the idea that
online interactions play such a crucial role. Two examples will now be illustrated to show how ~
offline interactions can influence mobilisation.

The Coventry Cluster — ,

The offline behaviour of Ali Kalantar, a foreign fighter from Coventry, chimes with the driving
thesis. In chapter one, we described the extent to which Ali Kalanta’s desire and decision to
mobilise were affected by his interactions with online propaganda. What appears to have been a
crucial element in his decision to mobilise, however, was his long-term friendship with two
friends from home, Rashed Amani and Mohammed Hadi, who travelled with him. Interactions
with a radical imam at a local mosque are also cited as potential influences by his family, who
perceived changes in Kalantar’s behaviour as originating from this contact.

Reports suggest that Kalantar asked to borrow his passport from his parents in order to fill out
university related documents, while asking to borrow £1000 from his brother in order to pay for
a new laptop.'? This indicates that Kalantar was not considered a risk by his loved ones, who:

 

131 See Merari, A., ‘Social, organizational and psychological factors in suicide terrorism,’ in Bjorgo, T. ed., Root
Causes of Terrorism: Myths, Realities and Ways Forward, Oxford, Routledge, 2005.
132 Taher, A., et al., ‘British jihadist who married one of the 16-year-old Manchester ‘terror twins’ is ‘killed fighting

for ISIS in Iraq’, Mail Online, December 6" 2014, accessed April 26" 2015, at
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-286352 1/British-; jihadist-married-one- 16-year-old- |-Manchester-terror-

twins-Syria-killed-fighting-ISIS-Iraq.himl .
27

000215

000118
Document Released Under the Access to

nfesealientreidacer Drab rlinyaiese. Ye
ee eres en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a !informatian

perhaps had no indication that Kalantar was in any way radicalised. This is a common theme for
foreign fighters around the world; the family of teenager Abdullah Emir, an Australian convert to
Islam who travelled to Syria and became the frontman of at least two ISIS videos, believed that
he had gone on a fishing trip. The family only became aware of his intentions when he contacted
them from Turkey, days before crossing the border into Syria.'”?

It also indicates the importance of offline interactions in facilitating mobilisation, rather than
irrational fanaticism. Reports suggest that Mohammed Baryalei, a known foreign fighter
recruiter in Sydney, heavily influenced Elmir’s rapid radicalisation and mobilisation.'*4 For
Kalantar, his close friendships with Amani and Hadi appear crucial in explaining his
mobilisation. Kalantar and Amani are featured prominently in online postings, specifically
Instagram, in which Ali refers to them as “brothers since day one” and Mohammed Hadi as a
“brother from different mother.”'?5

The influence of the imam is yet to be fully understood. Reports from the family at the time
suggested that Kalantar had been ‘groomed’ by the imam, confirming that Kalantar had been
spending more time at the Mosque.’® The full extent of these interactions on Kalantar’s desire
and decision to travel will probably never be known. However, reports from his family suggest
that they did coincide with a change in his behaviour, that he had taken more interest in Islam
and began praying regularly. Kalantar had been commenting on and sharing propaganda material
for a minimum of six months before finaily leaving; that the contact with the imam was only in
the final month of this time period strengthens the idea that the relationship may have
precipitated Kalantar’s decision to make hijrah, thus highlighting the importance of offline
interactions. Similar relationships with imams have been reported by the families of men from
the Cardiff Cluster (involving brothers Aseel and Nasser Muthana, and their friend Reyaad
Khan),.and for a number of men from West London including Fatlum Shalaku.

Ifthekar Jaman: Establishing a Tazkiyyah Network

One of the most illuminating examples comes from a large cluster of fighters associated with
Ifthekar Jaman, a young man from Portsmouth who travelled to Syria in May 2013.'*’ The
trajectory of his radicalisation is largely typical. Having watched videos on YouTube about the
Syrian uprising, Jaman was told by local imams that the conflict was sectarian in nature and
therefore not a “true” jihad! Unconvinced, he researched more controversial opinions online

3 «Teen Jihadist Abdullah Elmir groomed like paedophile victim: terrorism expert’, Sydney Morning Herald,
October 22™ 2014, accessed on April 26" 2015, at http://www.smh.com.aw/national/teen-jihadist-abdullah-elmir-
proomed-like-paedophile-victim-terrorism-expert-20 141022-119x0z.html

Baryalei had links with some of Australia’s most notorious foreign fighters, including Mohammed Elomar and
Khaled Sharouff. .
195 See Appendix; Figures 22, 23.
136 Taher (2014) ——
15? Maher, S., ‘From Portsmouth to Kobane: the British jihadis fighting for Isis,’ New Statesman, November 6,
2014, accessed August 26, 2015, http://www.newstatesman.com/2014/10/portsmouth-kobane.
38 Shiraz Maher interview with Ifthekar Jaman, Skype, 2013

28

000216

000119
Document Released Under the Access to

InfogeatienrRoiea ed Und Gulu yg rtu
darifohRetibh Aa odelinGHtaniigué en vertu
de la Loi sur Paceés 2 l'information

' Islamic State vs. Wannabe Fighters

The social media campaigns of jihadist groups in the Syrian/Iraqi conflict are extensive — but are
they also effective? Many experts and commentators believe that — based on size and
sophistication alone — they must be good at recruiting people. They describe in glowing terms
Islamic State’s ‘really effective brand strategy’,'! its ‘planning and professionalism’,’” the

‘cinematic quality’ of its videos,” and how the group ‘is using every contemporary mode of
messaging to recruit fighters’. ‘4 The assumption is that online exposure — and online exposure
alone — makes people join.

The only problem: there is no evidence to support this claim; no information on how wannabe
fighters are actually using the internet; and no discussion of what other influences may have
caused them to go to Syria.

This chapter offers two perspectives on jihadist internet use in the Syrian/Iraqi conflict. One is
top-down: the Islamic State’s online campaign which — we are constantly told — is successful at
recruiting foreign fighters. The other is bottom up: the use of the intemet by fighters and
wannabe fighters themselves. What emerges is a stark contrast: while the Islamic State’s social
media campaign is indeed massive and sophisticated, it is not as top down and centrally
coordinated as often alleged, nor does most of it impact on wannabe foreign fighters during the
process of joining up.

How the Islamic State Uses the Internet

The purpose of the Islamic State’s social media campaign is to intimidate and to inspire. 15
Regarding intimidation, the Islamic State has proven to be powerful and innovative, be it by
communicating threats, demoralizing Western audiences, or by ‘sowing terror, disunion, and
defection’ among its enemies. There is evidence, for example, that the group’s military offensive
in the summer of 2014 was coordinated with its social media efforts, forcing populations to flee
their villages and compelling Iraqi soldiers to abandon their positions out of fear they might be
caught, tortured and executed. !®

Less clear is the extent to which the Islamic State’s social media campaign has succeeded at

making people join. This is not for lack of trying. The Islamic State produces more
‘inspirational’ output than other jihadist groups and has been the only one to consistently target

u «2 52M Thielman, ‘ISIS’ Sinister Media Strategy’, AdWeek, 10 September 2014.

*, Kingsley, ‘Who Is Behind’, op. cit.

** Spencer Ackerman, ‘ISIS Online Propaganda Outpacing U.S. Counter-efforts, Ex-Officials Warn’, Guardian, 22
September 2014.
“ «shane and Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying’, op. cit.

+ Alessandro Bonzio, ‘ISIS’ use of social media isn’t surprising: its digital strategy is’, Huffington Post, 15 September

2014.
*® Emerson Brooking, ‘The ISIS Propaganda Machine Is Horrifying and Effective: How Does It Work?, Defense in

Depth, Council on Foreign Relations, 31 December 2014; available at

 

how-does-it-work/. Also George Packer, ‘A Friend Flees the Horror of ISIS’, The New Yorker, 6 August 2014.

000010

000012
Document Released Under the Access to

Infqpaitinart Retbeseulatal HAG aay tou
de \ntbAhationh Aa DOciiieit Aivligue en vertu
de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

and concluded that Shia’s were a heretical sect who could not be considered real Muslims.”
Fighting them was not only permissible, but a duty. He committed himself to travelling to Si
for the sake of jihad.

This was far from straightforward. Jaman lacked contacts and unsuccessfully tried to establish
links with fighters from the UK for several months. Indeed, he even reached out to a number of
charity and aid convoys that were travelling to the country in the hope they might facilitate his
transfer to a jihadist group. He was tumed down; his unfamiliarity with existing radical °
structures in the real world temporarily impeded his plans until Jaman decided to travel to the
Syrian border alone and make connections there. Such innovation is generally rare, with the
Inajority of the fighters lacking the strength of character to take such a bold move when still -
relatively young.

Telling his family he was enrolling on an Arabic course, Jaman flew to Antakya — a small
Turkish town close to the Syrian border ~— and then took a bus to Reyhanli. It was on this journey
that Jaman met a man from Aleppo entirely by chance and revealed his desire to wage jihad in
Syria. He helped Jaman cross the Syrian border and took him to Aleppo where he had hoped to
join Jabhat al-Nusra. “I looked around and I saw them raising the black flag everywhere,” Jaman
told Shiraz Maher, senior fellow at the ICSR. “People think it’s the flag of al-Qaeda but, no, it’s
the flag of Islam. vido Once in Aleppo Jaman was taken to a Jabhat al-Nusra recruitment office
but was turned away. Again, Jaman’s lack of contact with existing radical networks made it

_ difficult for him to win the trust of groups fighting on the ground. No one could provide him
with tazkiyyah however, and thus his sincerity remained unknown. Despite his best efforts, the
lack of tazkiyyah meant Jaman was unable to join Jabhat al-Nusra. “I got teary. I was devastated.
This is what I’d come for,” Jaman said.'*' Islamic State was less concemed with Jaman’s status
and let him join without a reference. This is characteristic for the group, which has lower barriers
to entry than many other militant organisations in Syria.

Jaman used the Internet to maintain regular and intense contact with a group of five friends in
Portsmouth to whom he had grown particularly close in the year preceding his migration to
Syria: his cousin, Asad Uzzaman; Muhammad Hamidur Rahman; Mamunur Roshid; Mashudur
Choudhury; and, Mehdi Hassan. Jaman used Skype and WhatsApp to conduct private
discussions with his friends about his experiences in Syria. Jaman encouraged his friends to join
him and offered detailed instructions of what clothing to bring, how much money to carry, and
logistics for crossing the border. Moreover, Jaman could now offer his friends a smoother and
more considered plan for entering territory held by Islamic State by giving them tazkiyyah. This
is the real significance of the offline peer-to-peer relationship here. By offering his friends a
greater degree of information and knowledge, Jaman was able to lower the emotional and
psychological barriers to participation. Having arranged tazkiyyah for the five Portsmouth men,
Jaman gave them highly specific information about where to travel in Turkey in order to meet
trusted fixers and transporters who would facilitate their transfer into Syria. In the event, he was
even able to arrange for a truck to pick them up near the border.

139 «This is the duty on me” — exclusive interview with 23-year-old British jihadi in Syria”, BBC Newsnight,
YouTube, November 208 2013, accessed August 26%, 2015, https://www. youtube. com/watch?v=BPTSw-cC4UQ. -

¥° Shiraz Maher interview with Ifthekar Jaman, Skype, 2013
"1 Thid. (2013)

29
000217

000120
Document Released Under the Access to

InfdecumenhReldased: Hadedthd Agcesstetu

delnfarmation Asté Dacumentdivuigué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Meanwhile, in Manchester, another group of three men — Anil Khalil Raoufi, Mohammed Azzam
Javeed, and Abu Qa’qaa (this is his nom de guerre; his real name is unknown) — were also being
radicalised, in part, by Jaman’s public propaganda. Abu Qa’gaa published a long explanation of
his decision to travel to Syria in which he revealed that the group had been closely monitoring
events on social media and ‘had grown increasingly angry at the situation. They reconciled
themselves to travelling but, much like Jaman, were unsure of how to reach Syria safely. After
discussing it amongst themselves, the group were uninspired but decided to “rely on Allah
alone,” and resolved to make contacts whilst in Turkey. To this end, Qa’qaa admits to having
been inspired by the teachings of the al- Qaeda ideologue Anwar al-Awlaki who had told his
followers, “hijrah [migration] is like jumping off a cliff and not knowing what to expect at the
bottom.”

Unbeknown to Qa’qaa, both Raoufi and Javeed had decided not to delay their journey and
bought airline tickets to Turkey. Although Qa’qaa did not have enough money for the journey,
he was supported by Raoufi and Javeed who paid for his ticket. This incident again demonstrates
the importance of peers in enabling their friends when at the tipping point between radicalisation
and mobilisation. Once in Turkey the trio began reaching out to fighters in the hope of receiving
tazkiyyah. It was impossible. Unknown to anyone inside the country, t no one was prepared to
vouch for them.

When the group contacted Ifthekar Jaman he was similarly unprepared to offer tazkiyyah for
individuals who were entirely unknown to him, but engineered a plan to help the Manchester
trio. He told-them to wait in Turkey until his friends from Portsmouth arrived (who, by
coincidence, were scheduled to arrive just a few days later). They would meet and vet the
Manchester men. If they approved, Jaman would provide them with tazkiyyah.

In the event, the Portsmouth cluster was sufficiently reassured by the Manchester trio that they
advised Ifthekar Jaman to provide tazkiyyah.'® He did, and days later all the men were taken into
Syria. This episode underscores the importance of offline interactions when winning trust
because of the potential for ambiguity when solely interacting with others online. For the
Manchester cluster this was vital and a necessary precursor to their arrival in Syria.

¥2 See Appendix; Figure 24
30

000218

000121
Document Released Under the Access to

InDocutiont Released Uredd che lavéess rertu
dérifoimation Atooaliménnaiingué en vertu
de la Loi sur Faccés a |'information

Conclusion ~ Refocusing the Policy Debate

This report has attempted to provide a more nuariced understanding of the recruitment of British
nationals to the ‘Islamic State.’ It has had two related objectives; to make clear the distinctions
between radicalisation and recruitment with reference to the desires, decisions and actions of the
recruit; and to provide a more nuanced understanding of the influence of the Internet on the
mobilisation process as a whole. Without such distinctions, the investigations into the serious
and complex issue of preventing foreign fighter recruitment devolves into misunderstandings
that not only affect academic accuracy but, as has been highlighted, public policy.

The ‘Internet causality’ narrative has heavily affected the debate regarding the roles and
responsibilities of governments and Internet companies. The narrative is at the heart of a
conundrum, summarised by former Google executive Andrew McCaughlin in the following way:

““You want to live in a world where people have access ta news — in other words,
documentary evidence of what is actually happening. And an ISIS video of hostages being
beheaded is both an act of propaganda and is itself a fact. And so if you're a platform,
you don't want to suppress the facts. On the other hand, d, you don’t want to participate in
advancing propaganda. And there is the conundrum. "4

The situation has undoubtedly become more complex since the time of Osama Bin Laden, whose
messages were smuggled out of the remote locations they were filmed in and couriered to Al
Jazeera. Seeing the Internet a as just a platform, even if exaggerated for satirical effect, seems
increasingly disingenuous.’ Even Bin Laden acknowledged this difference, stating in a letter

found in his compound that “The wide-scale spread of jihadist ideology, especially on the ~
Internet, and the tremendous number of young people who frequent the Jihadist Web sites [are] a
major achievement for jihad.”!**

If the freedom of speech versus security debate is not being placed in emotive, Orwellian
language, it is invariably placed in black and white terms. For Wallace, who argues that Twitter’s
indirect promotion of violence and calls to violence is the equivalent of providing material
support to terrorist organisations, concludes that if Intemet companies are not willing to be part
of the solution, they are part of the problem.“ Twitter dissents by arguing that a distinction must
be made between platform and content. Colin Crowell, the firm’s head of global public policy,
claims that the “key thing...is to recognize [Twitter's] role.as the provider of this open platform
for free expression . . . to recognize that that speech is not our own” and that a duty to respect
and to defend those voices on the platform,” is crucial. “The platform of any debate is neutral.
The platform doesn’t take sides.”'*’ The issue can be simplified down to philosophical and

“3 Higham, S., Nakashima, E., ‘Why the Islamic State leaves tech companies torn between free speech and
security, The Washington Pe Post, July 16", 2015, accessed August 26", 2015,
h hi m/world/ LL ty/is!

 

6141 st ‘ory htm ?postshare=773 143706104 308
™ Thid. (2015)
5 Thid. (2015)
_ 46 s
7 Thid, (2015
31
000219

000122
Document Released Under the Access to
DocumuantiRaldadeddéndenthiAbpese tovertu
tnfoniation Ath. Racuntarbdimulged en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

practical considerations; first, should Internet companies curb the free speech of individuals by
removing content? If yes, to what extent it is feasible to do so?

The problems with framing the issue in this way are profound, however. First, nobody wins; this
report has illustrated that keeping the material online will undoubtedly have an effect on recruits,
yet taking it down is also flawed. Not only is the process of removing Twitter accounts only
marginally effective in reducing the overall noise of jihadist activity, it is not resource efficient
while preventing concerned parties such as governments, academics and security analysts from
learning about the conflict and studying its broader trends.'*

While this report has highlighted the importance of this debate, the Intemet’s limitations have
also been illustrated, with offline dynamics appearing crucial in the actual physical movement to
the region. The Internet debate, while important, appears increasingly abstract and detached from
the reality of how the mobilisation process works. Some of the attention must be refocused, then,
on the traditional factors and mechanisms of mobilisation that exit in society rather than online.

Extremism, both its acts and ideas, can only be countered with civic engagement. As Nemr

_ notes, facts don’t matter to extremists.’ Unpalatable ideas need to be made marginalised and
made taboo for them not take root and spread, and this requires a civic, values based approach.
Grassroots campaigns that take a holistic approach to countering extremism, that have a granular
understanding of the dynamics on a local level, need to be empowered. An example would be the
Active Change Foundation, based in East London. Started by Hanif Qadir, an ex-radical who
fought in Afghanistan at the start of the ‘War on Terror’, the organisation has had great success
in ingraining ideas of civic responsibility and positive values, such as leadership, in young
people. The programmes they offer help those participating in learning valuable life skills, but
also become a hub of values that slowly disseminate into the community at large. The success of
these programs relies on trust, which needs time to build. The crisis in the Middle East, and thus
the steady flow of radicalised migrants travelling to the region, shows no sign of abating. Unless
governments take a proactive approach, the physical and political repercussions could be drastic.

148 See Berger, J.M., Morgan, J., ‘ISIS Twitter Census’, The Brookings Project on U.S. Relations with the Islamic
World, No, 20, March 2015.
149 Nemr (2015).

32
000220

000123
Document Released Under the Access to

$.13(1)(a) . Iniqnaalinent Rdibiegmndal Hee ceas tatu

' de lnfornatiohacteeDocinitintaiaiigué en vertu
s.15(1) - Int'l de la Loi sur 'accés a finformation

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: Lively, Cassandra

Sent: Tuesday, June 23, 2015 9:02 AM

To: Kubicek, Brett

Subject: RE: Kings College Deliverables .

_ Attachments: Re: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London; RE: Follow-up on Today's Call -

Kings College London

No problem!

My notes basically reiterate what is in the first email above, and I’ve also included your reply to Shiraz re: restricted
briefing paper:

“One thing to keep in mind, with this kind of change, is not to double-count work for the online/offline paper with that
for the restricted briefing paper".

In the first email you'll see what they committed to completing in the “extension document” word document.

 

From: Kubicek, Brett
Sent: Tuesday, June 23, 2015 8:53 AM
To: Lively, Cassandra
Subject: RE: Kings College Deliverables

Thanks! Do you have notes from our Feb. 23 call with Shiraz on this stuff, or an email where one of us confirmed the
Status of the restricted briefing paper? My notes are that I'd review their Ottawa paper and get back to them to
determine if it met the commitment, and (’m pretty sure | said it was too limited to be considered equivalent to a 5000
word paper. I’m trying to track that down, but if you have it handy, please let me know. .

 

From: Lively, Cassandra

Sent: Tuesday, June 23, 2015 8:45 AM
To: Kubicek, Brett

Subject: Kings College Deliverables

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deliverable Clientele Outputs Date
Public Briefing paper | Government officials, {| 5,000 word paper | March 2014
“Westem foreign academics, media to be published .
fighters/Syria” , and disseminated
by ICSR —— 8-13(1)(a)
$.15(1) - Int
Canadian government 5,000 word paper { May 2015
officials produced
exclusively for
Canadian
government
Online resource Government officials, | Searchable section | June 2015
“Foreign academics, media of ICSR website,
fighters/Syria” . to be maintained
throughout the
project’s duration
1 .
000221

000124
Document Released Under the Access to

InfasnatuntRbidaecy OABb sine aves ter
spa eee ON en vertu

de la Loi sur l'accés a Finformation

 

 

 

 

 

 

Research monograph General public, 75,000 word Draft to be completed by June 2015
“Syrian Militant government officials, monograph to be
Movements” academics, media published by
"| major academic
publisher .
Workshops and Government officials, | Minimum ofhalfa | March 2015
briefings on Syria in academics, media dozen meetings
Ottawa, Canada with presentation
and discussion of
key findings
Paper on the interplay | General public, 10,000 word May 2015
between online and government officials, edited publication,
‘real world’ academics, media
radicalization :
_ Paper on the General public, 10,000 word May 2015
‘facilitation’ network | government officials, edited publication
in Turkey academics, media

 

 

 

Cassandra Lively, MPA

Project Manager | Gestionnaire de projet
Kanishka Project | Projet Kanishka
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada
Telephone: 613-990-8417
E-mail | Courriel: Cassandra. Lively@ps-sp.ge.ca

Building a Safe and Resilient Canada
Batir un Canada sécuritaire et résiliant

000222
000125
s.19(1) Document Released Under the Access to
Didcunaiht Rékdiacod Undenthd aiigosetovertu
hifonriation A¢bcBecuntentdivatgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)
From: Kubicek, Brett
Sent: _ Wednesday, March 11, 2015 4:20 PM .
To: ‘ * ‘Shiraz Maher’; Lively, Cassandra
Ce: ‘Partington, Neil’; Martin, Connie
_ Subject: RE: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London

Thank you for this Shiraz - | think the assumption was that you could do a special journal issue without a conference {and |
there are ways, of course), but I’m good with the idea of subbing additional papers by the ICSR team instead, especially
_if they are of similar scale/effort — which seems to be the case.

We do need to make the case for approval here (my authority only goes so far!), and we may have some further
questions (e.g. level of effort). But it should be short and relatively straightforward. :

One thing to keep in mind, with this kind of change, is not to double-count work for the online/offline paper with that
for the restricted briefing paper.

As well, I’m good with the new dates mentioned, though note that monograph does not need to be published for you to
complete that task. “All” we would need i is to see the manuscript. So that might shorten the timeframe. Please let us
know if so.

Note, however, that in putting off the dates this will raise a question here about the gap between us paying for effort
and the delivery of products.

It’s not a problem, but does require a little extra detail. Namely, if you are doing significant work after March (e.g. on
your own time), this should be reflected in the budget as an in-kind contribution.

We will work with you on this, and it should be simple, but we should aim to do this all at once.

Finally, while at it, a quick question about the activity report (which looks great!) — are all the items listed directly linked
to work we’ve funded, or are some more in the realm of just relevant?

For example, the BBC study’s approach to data gathering and analysis looked relevant but separate. But if you have a
direct link to make, that is definitely good to know. Lots of interest here these days about evidence of impact, so keeping
' the line between relevant and linked is helpful — if there is one, that is!

Thanks again.
All best,
Brett.

Brett Kubicek, PhD
Manager, Research and Academic Relations | Gestionnaire, Recherche et relations académiques

Portfolio Affairs and Communications Branch | Secteur des affaires du portefeuille et des communications
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada
Tel: 613.991.7779 | Fax: 613.954.3131 | brett. kubicek .gc.ca

s.19(1)
From: Shiraz Maher [mailto:

Sent: Wednesday, March 11, 2015 1:38 PM
To: Lively, Cassandra

000223

000126
Document Released Under the Access to

InfoweatitshOreiddesu Undelindgtoessetu
deihtdrtiation Act? Daduialit @Walyué en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information

Ce: Partington, Neil; Kubicek, Brett; Martin, Connie
Subject: Re: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London

Hello all, sorry, getting sign-off has been like trying to juggle water. I attach two documents - Cassandra, can
you please let me know what, if anything, further you require (I feel like I'm missing something).

- On 23 February 2015 at 21:57, Lively, Cassandra <Cassandra Lively@ps-sp.gc.ca> wrote:

Hello Shiraz,
It was very nice to meet you via telephone today!

As requested, below you will find the information we’ll need to issue your 2014-15 funds, and address
amending your agreement:

1- An Activity Report covering the period October 1, 2013 — December 31, 2014. This report does not need to
be anything fancy, but must include the following info:

e = Abrief description of events related to the Project during the period covered by the report;

\

e The activities completed and results obtained with respect to the objectives of the project;

e Successes and difficulties encountered by project staff in achieving the objectives of the
Project; and

e A brief description of the activities to be completed after your activity report, and any
expected changes to your project’s work plan. (This is taken from section C1, in Annex C of

your original agreement).

2- On the financial side of things, we need to know if you expect to expend the total Public Safety Canada
contribution to your project for the 2014-15 fiscal year, before March 31, 2015 ($136,561). If you do expect to’
spend all of this money, and may require additional funds to fulfill the objectives of your project, please let us
know and we can explore the possibility of amending your agreement to provide additional funds. Or, if you
will be unable to expend all of the money, we could explore the possibility of moving those funds into the next
fiscal year, and amending your agreement to extend the duration.

3- Either way, we need to update the deliverables table in your original contribution agreement (attached for
easy reference above, and I’ve also attached the previous amendment to your project budget): Our finance folks. ©
will not allow us to release payment if a deliverable has not been completed before the end date listed in Annex
A, in the project work plan. I’ve copied and pasted the table below, if you could propose any necessary changes
in wording and completion dates, that would be great. Please feel free to do this as a reply to this email, and
highlight any changes in a different font color © Brett will get back to us on the restricted briefing paper issues

as soon as possible.

000224
000127
s.13(1)(a)
s.15(1) - Int'l

Document Released Under

 

 

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I think that covers everything, please let me know if you have any questions about any of this.

Thank you for your time, -

Cassandra Lively, MPA

Project Manager | Gestionnaire de projet

the Access to

Guoumatiordishs ponder thd Assess vertu
Idfotinbtion Adis Désurienl CivuNGe en vertu
de Ja Loi sur faccés a l'information
$.13(1)(a)
$.15(1) - Int'l
Project Description/Work Plan:
Deliverable Clientele Outputs Date
_}| Public Briefing Government 5,000 word paper to be published | 03/14
] paper “Western officials, and disseminated by ICSR
foreign academics, media
fighters/Syri
Canadian 5,000 word paper produced 06/14
government exclusively for Canadian
officials government
ime resource Government Searchable section of ICSR 07/14
“Foreign officials, website, to be maintained
fighters/Syria” academics, media _| throughout the project’s duration
Research General public, 75,000 word monograph to be 12/14
monograph government published by major academic
“Syrian Militant officials, publisher
Movements” academics, media
Workshops and Government Minimum of halfa dozen 2/15
briefings on Syria | officials, meetings with presentation and
in Ottawa, Canada { academics, media __| discussion of key findings
Special journal General public, 20,000 word edited conference 03/15
issue government publication, or special issue of
officials, Democracy and Security
academics, media

000225

000128
Document Released Under the Access to
ry aati 7 i e yaytu
ce Betiat Nels area PS
de la Loi sur ’'accés a linformation.
Kanishka Project | Projet Kanishka ;
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada
Telephone: 613-990-8417
E-mail | Courriel: Cassandra Lively@ps-sp.gc.ca

Building a Safe and Resilient Canada

Batir un Canada sécuritaire et résifient |

000226
000129
Document Released Under the Access to

InfooourienvRriGbyea unntéctivellaveess w'tu
dérifobrnaton Aetooedinénrdaingué en vertu
de ta Loi sur l'acceés 4 information

Western audiences in their own, European languages. All of this output is professionally made
and well presented, demonstrating members’ skill at using the latest equipment, editing and
graphic software.” Al Hayat Media Centre, one of the group’s media production entities, has
released a whole range of media products, including feature length documentaries like Flames of
War; shorter videos highlighting the foreigners’ ‘good works’; interviews with Western fighters;
translations of Arabic language content; and — not least - the group’s online magazine Dabiq
which has been published in half a dozen languages.'*

Another striking facet is the group’s dissemination strategy. The Islamic State maintains multiple
accounts on practically every major social media platform, including Facebook, Instagram, and
Ask.fm. On Twitter, it is represented by various parts of the leadership, provincial commands,
and hundreds of individual fighters who maintain their own, personal accounts.’ In addition, the
group has repeatedly ‘hijacked’ popular hashtags (for example, ‘#WorldCup’) and created
automatized fake accounts to promote its own (for instance, ‘#AllEyesonISIS’). For a brief
period, it even had its own Android app — ~ Dawn of Glad Tidings — through which it sent
messages via subscribers’ Twitter accounts.”” The cumulative effect is both practical and
psychological. It enables the Islamic State to swamp the internet, making takedowns more
difficult and less effective, while at the same time “agnifying’ the group’s message and ,
creating the perception of momentum and strength.”!

What’s more, the group is conscious that it has multiple audiences who need to be reached and
spoken to differently. Pictures of executions or military victories are used to increase the group’s
visibility and create a sense of shock and terror among non-jihadist audiences, while
sympathizers are additionally exposed to ‘softer’ messages articulating the idea of an Islamic
utopia. Potential recruits, therefore, will see the group’s excessively violent side but also pictures
of foreign fighters distributing food, adjudicating disputes, manning local police forces, or —
indeed — holding kittens and showing off pots of Nutella.

Similarly, content and messages are segmented according to language, often incorporating local
references and featuring " ‘role models’ from the respective countries and/or language groups at
which they are targeted.” This system of customization, along with its capabilities in production
and dissemination, are indicative of the group’s sophistication — resulting in a campaign that, i in
the words of J.M. Berger, ‘would put American social media marketing gurus to shame’.”

Cheerleaders, Disseminators, and Fanboys

17 Kingsley ‘Who is behind’, op. cit.
28 See Olivia Becker, ‘ISIS has a really slick and sophisticated media department’, Vice News, 12 July 2014; ‘New ISIS
Media Company Addresses English, German, and French Speaking Westerners’, MEMRI, 23 June 2014.
Fora sample of islamic State related Twitter accounts and activity, see Erin M. Saltman and Charlie Winter,
Islamic State: The Changing Face of Modern Jihadism (London: Quilliam, 2014), pp. 66-70.
2° mM Berger, ‘How ISIS Games Twitter’, The At/antic, 16 June 2014. See also Alessandro Bonzio, ‘ISIS’ use of social
media isn’t surprising: its digital strategy is’, Huffington Post, 15 September 2014. .
a ;, berger, ‘How ISIS Games’, op. cit.

? Ibid.

? Ibid.
** Berger, ‘How ISIS Games’, op. cit.

000011

000013
: Document Released Under the Access to
DUPLICATE Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
. de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

Pages 227 to/a 238
are duplicates of
sont des duplicatas des

pages 50 to/a 61

000130
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to

InfpsoaientRelddeeu'unubrlind AUeeesuertU

delitderiation Acre Bedtinfenmaieigué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

8.19(1)
Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)
From: Shiraz Maher
Sent: Wednesday, March 11, 2015 1:38 PM
To: Lively, Cassandra
ce: - Partington, Neil; Kubicek, Brett; Martin, Connie
Subject: Re: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London
Attachments: Canada activity update.docx; Canada Extension Document i.docx

Hello all, sorry, getting sign-off has been like trying to juggle water. I attach two documents - Cassandra, can
you please let me know what, if anything, further you require (I feel like I'm missing something).

On 23 February 2015 at 21:57, Lively, Cassandra <Cassandra.Lively@ps-sp.gc.ca> wrote:

Hello Shiraz,
It was very nice to meet you via telephone today!

As requested, below you will find the information we'll need to issue your 2014-15 funds, and address

_amending your agreement:

1- An Activity Report covering the period October 1, 2013 —‘December 31, 2014. This report does not need to
be anything fancy, but must include the following info:

e 6A brief description of events related to the Project during the period covered by the report;
e The activities completed and results obtained with respect to the objectives of the project;

e Successes and difficulties encountered by project staff in achieving the objectives of the
Project; and

e A brief description of the activities to be completed after your activity report, and any
expected changes to your project’s work plan. (This is taken from section C1, in Annex C of
your original agreement). .

2- On the financial side of things, we need to know if you expect to expend the total Public Safety Canada
contribution to your project for the 2014-15 fiscal year, before March 31, 2015 ($136,561). If you do expect to
spend all of this money, and may require additional funds to fulfill the objectives of your project, please let us
know and we can explore the possibility of amending your agreement to provide additional funds. Or, if you
will be unable to expend all of the money, we could explore the possibility of moving those funds into the next
fiscal year, and amending your agreement to extend the duration.

000239
000131
Document Released Under the Access to

$.13(1 )(a) ; . Infgeeatiwntreldaesa under ind niescvatu

15(1) - Int! delktdrniatin Ate? DedumahraWalyud en vertu
Ss. de ta Loi sur laccés a information
3- Either way, we need to update the deliverables table in your original contribution agreement (attached for
easy reference above, and I’ve also attached the previous amendment to your project budget). Our finance folks
will not allow us to release payment if a deliverable has not been completed before the end date listed in Annex
A, in the project work plan. I’ve copied and pasted the table below, if you could propose any necessary changes
in wording and completion dates, that would be great. Please feel free to do this as a reply to this email, and
highlight any changes in a different font color © Brett will get back to us on the restricted briefing papér issues
as soon as possible. :

Project Description/Work Plan:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deliverable Clientele Outputs Date
Public Briefing Government 5,000 word paper to be published | 03/14
paper “Western officials, and disseminated by ICSR s.13(1)(a)
foreign .academics, media : $.15(1) - Int'l
5,000 word paper produced 06/14
exclusively for Canadian
government .
Online resource. Searchable section of ICSR 07/14
“Foreign officials, website, to be maintained .
fighters/Syria” academics, media__| throughout the project’s duration
Research | } General public, 75,000 word monograph to be 12/14
monograph government published by major academic
“Syrian Militant officials, publisher
Movements” academics, media
Workshops and Government Minimum of half a dozen 2/15
briefings on Syria | officials, meetings with presentation and
in Ottawa, Canada _ | academics, media __| discussion of key findings
Special journal General public, 20,000 word edited conference 03/15
| issue government publication, or special issue of
officials, Democracy and Security
academics, media
I think that covers everything, please let me know if you have any questions about any of this.
Thank you for your time,
2 .
000240

000132
Document Released Under the Access to
IMfocunABAn Ratha Reruns He guess ta/ertu
QateATRStISH Aa 7 SSctHEHt GANGES en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Cassandra Lively, MPA

Project Manager | Gestionnaire de projet -
Kanishka Project | Projet Kanishka

Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

‘Telephone: 613-990-8417
E-mail | Courriel: Cassandra. Lively@ps-sp.gc.ca

Building a Safe and Resilient Canada

Batir un Canada sécuritaire et résilient

000241

000133
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

DUPLICATE Document Released Under the Access to ‘

Pages 242 to / a 253
are duplicates

sont des duplicatas

000134

og
s 19(1 ) . Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 1:46 PM

To: Beecher, Sophie (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Thanks Sophie,

JP Levert

 

From: Beecher, Sophie (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 1:44 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) ;

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Perhaps NSOD or Cyber
| can confirm that we NSPD — do not.
This may be more a question for the agencies...

Sophie Beecher
Tel/tél.: (613) 949-3184

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 1:03 PM

To: Beecher, Sophie (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Lachance, Nathaly (PS/SP); McCammon,
Cindy (PS/SP); Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good morning Sophie,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your
consideration.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

 

JOURNALIST:

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

000135
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. : Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

  

From: | [mailto:

   

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

 

       

Thanks,

 

:| CBC News

   
   
 
  

. pgp: https://keybase.io.
. pgp fingerprint:
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

000136
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)}

Sent: ’ Monday, May 08, 2017 5:22 PM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Ok will do.

Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 5:21 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

HiJP

| don’t believe we have the same operational concerns as RCMP/CSE/CSIS. If IT confirms that we don’t have a contract
with this company, we should share that with the reporter.

Thanks
-Andrew

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 5:15 PM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Andrew,
Agencies are now responding directly to this call. (RCMP, CSIS and CSEC)

| now have confirmation that CCIRC doesn’t have contracts with them and has not purchased licenses for their software.
| have sent an email to IT asking them to advise for the department.

At this point, should we follow the agency trend and provide the proposed response below? We could run it by legal?
(Do we have a specific contact for Legal?)

Please advise.

Thanks,

JP Levert

PROPOSED RESPONSE:

Public Safety Canada is not able to discuss details concerning which companies we do or do not have a business
relationship with. As a result, we are unable to confirm whether we use Palantir products.

1
000137
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i | Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:39 AM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: FW: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi JP
Anon-flood call for you to take care of.

Thanks
-Andrew

 

From: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:37 AM

To: Duval, Jean Paul (PS/SP); Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Martel, Karine *(PSISP), MacLean, Megan (PS/SP); Baker3,
Ryan (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: FW: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

From: = =

Sent: May 8, 2017 11:36:25 AM (UTC-05:00) Eastern Time (US & Canada)
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

 

   

__, CBC News

000138
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

s.19(1)

. pgp: https://keybase.io/
. pep fingerprint: _ ao
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

   
      

000139
Document Released Under the Access to

InfecathentReldaeed Undbethel deeass vertu

delhidmiation Act éSdclinfentuitaigué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a Vinformation —

This is not to say, however, that the group’s entire online presence is top down and centrally -
coordinated, In our #Greenbirds report, we showed that the most influential spiritual authorities
among Western foreign fighters had no formal association with Islamic State or other jihadist
groups, nor were they located in Syria or Iraq (one was based in the United States, the other was
Australian). They served as spiritual ‘cheerleaders’ who had taken it upon themselves to promote
and justify the idea of foreign fighting, typically through the intemet, and emerged as important
— albeit wholly independent — sources of influence.”

Our report also highlighted the role of so-called ‘disseminators’ who are key to pushing the
groups’ messages to their Western recipients. Among the Western foreign fighters in our
database, the most popular Twitter accounts were not the groups’ official accounts (none of them
even made it into the Top 10), but those of independent disseminators like ‘Shami Witness’ who
were broadly supportive of the Islamic State, justified its actions and re-tweeted its material, but
also produced their own output (for example, memes), promoted unorthodox sources of
information, and — occasionally — disagreed with the party line.” Seven years ago, Jarret
Brachman coined the term ‘jihobbyist’ to describe such individuals, recognizing that, in a vast,
growing and seemingly anarchical structure like the internet, they were essential to ‘[moving]
forward the Jihadist agenda’.”’

Not least, there are hundreds, if not thousands, of so-called ‘fanboys’ — enthusiastic supporters of
the Islamic State who populate Facebook and Twitter and spend considerable amounts of time
discussing the latest developments and re-tweeting the pictures, memes and other material —
published by fighters and disseminators. Communicating with other, seemingly more prominent
members gives them a sense of being part of the movement and having a role to play — even if
their direct involvement with jihadist groups is minimal. Like the cheerleaders and
disseminators, they are supporters, not members, and they receive no explicit direction. Yet their
contribution is essential to making the group visible and effective. Acting like a swarm, they are
what ICSR research fellow Nico Prucha called the ‘media mujahideen’?

How Wannabe Fighters Use the Internet

For our analysis of how wannabe fighters use the internet, we examined the online postings of
the 10 British fighters in our sample between the first time they had publicly contemplated the
idea of going to Syria and their eventual departure. We didn’t, therefore, look at their entire
radicalisation trajectory (many had, in fact, been involved in extremist causes long before the
Syrian conflict) but narrowly focused on the process of joining up,”” which could last from a few
weeks to several months. Our data consisted of Tweets and Facebook posts — in some cases also

 

® carter, #Greenbirds, op cit., pp. 18-28.
© Ihid., pp. 15-18.

2? Jarret Brachman, Global Jihadism: Theory and Practice (London and New York: Routledge, 2009), p. 19.

? ali Fisher and Nico Prucha, ‘ISIS is winning the online jihad against the West’, Daily Beast, 1 October 2014.

®° For a discussion of concepts like ‘recruitment’ and ‘joining up’ in the context of jihadist radicalisation, see Peter
R. Neumann, ‘Joining Al-Qaeda: Jihadist Recruitment in Europe’, Adelphi Paper #399, international institute for

Strategic Studies, January 2009.

000012

000014
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 5:21 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)}

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
HiJP

1 don’t believe we have the same operational concerns as RCMP/CSE/CSIS. If IT confirms that we don’t have a contract
with this company, we should share that with the reporter.

Thanks
-Andrew

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 5:15 PM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Andrew,
Agencies are now responding directly to this call. (RCMP, CSIS and CSEC)

| now have confirmation that CCIRC doesn’t have contracts with them and has not purchased licenses for their software.
| have sent an email to IT asking them to advise for the department.

At this point, should we follow the agency trend and provide the proposed response below? We could run it by legal?
(Do we have a specific contact for Legal?)

Please advise.
Thanks,
JP Levert

PROPOSED RESPONSE:
Public Safety Canada is not able to discuss details concerning which companies we do or do not have a business
relationship with. As a result, we are unable to confirm whether we use Palantir products.

’ Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i + i Public Safety Sécurité publique

Canada Canada

000140
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:39 AM
To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)
. Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)
Subject: FW: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi JP
Anon-fiood call for you to take care of.

Thanks
-Andrew

From: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:37 AM

To: Duval, Jean Paul (PS/SP); Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP); MacLean, Megan (PS/SP); Baker3,
Ryan (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: FW: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

 

Sent: May 8, 2017 11:36:25 AM (UTC-05:00) Eastern Time (US & Canada)
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

    
 

“Pep: Hits like
- pgp fingerprint i

 

000141
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:32 PM

To: Bendelier, Kenneth (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Grenier,
Julie (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Thanks!

JP Levert

 

From: Bendelier, Kenneth (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:20 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hello JP,

I cannot speak for PS writ large but CCIRC does not use Palantir products.

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 8, 2017 4:17 PM

To: Bendelier, Kenneth (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP)
Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon Ken,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your
consideration.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

 

JOURNALIST: |

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Can you please advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software. If you don’t know,
could you please advise who might?

Thanks,
Jean-Philippe Levert

000142
s.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

a +] Public Safety Sécurité publique

Canada Canada

From: =~... = =[mailto: =~ «>Scbe.ca]

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

 

     
  
 

. twitter: @
email
. pgp: https://keybase

. pgp fingerprint:

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

000143
s.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:29 PM

To: McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:14 PM

To: Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Lachance, Nathaly (PS/SP); Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP)
Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

You could also check with Ken Bendelier, Manager, Cdn Cyber Incident Response Centre.

 

From: Grenier, Julie (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 12:54 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Lachance, Nathaly (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP)
Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi J-P,
I’m not aware if we have any contracts or licences with Palantir. | suggest you check with Sophie Beecher, Director of NS
Intelligence.

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 12:03 PM

To: Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Lachance, Nathaly (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP)
Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good morning NCSB team,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your
consideration. ,

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

JOURNALIST: _ - CBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who in NS might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their
software. :

1
000144

- j
s 19(1 ) . . Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés 4 l'information

Thanks,

’ Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité puttique
Canada Canada

From: _
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11: 36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

‘@cbc.ca]

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

_ CBC News

 

 

. office:
cell: 88
. twitter: @
. email:
. pgp: htips/fkeybase lor,
. pep fingerprint:
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

 
  
  

000145
s.1 9(1 ) . Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:08 PM

To: ‘Giolti, Patrizia’

Ce: Campbell, Barre Grant; Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Giolti, Patrizia [mailto:Patrizia.Giolti@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca]

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:02 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Cc: Campbell, Barre Grant

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hello — the CBSA has not received any calls and - for internal only - we do not have any contract with this
company.

From: Giolti, Patrizia
Sent: May 8, 2017 2:37 PM
To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) (jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca) <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca>

Cc: Campbell, Barre Grant <BarreGrant.Campbell@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca>
Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi no calls with the CBSA — we are checking just the same. Thanks

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there
seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

000146
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i | Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 

From: a

Sent: Monday, May 0 08, "2017 11:3 11: 36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

 

  
 
    

. , CBC News

@cbe.ca|__

. pep ‘fingerprint: - EE
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

000147
s.15(1) - Subv Document Released Under the Access to |
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
s.1 9(1) de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)__-

From: Julie Gagnon <julie.gagnon@rcmp-grc.gc.ca>

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 3:12 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Ce: Delisle, Annie; Pfleiderer, Harold

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
copy that

Julie Gagnon, S/Sergeant/s.é.-m.

NCO i/c Media Relations / sous-officier en charge des relations avec les médias
RCMP National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication de la GRC

73 Leikin Dr. / 73 promenade Leikin

suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeuble M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613) 843-5999

Fax/Téléc.: (613) 825-8250

julie.gagnon@rcmp-gre.gc.ca

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:57 PM >>>
Hi Julie,

Given that CSE and CSIS are both ready to go with a response, we will ask that the RCMP respond directly as well.
Thanks,

JP Levert

From: Julie Gagnon [mailto: julie. gagnon@remp-gre.ge.ca]
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:10 PM

To: CSEC-CSTC, Media; Delisle, Annie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP);__
Pfleiderer, Harold}: a
Cc: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Sulie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

 

_; Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca;

 

Allo jean-Philippe,

We have received the same request from Mr. :
the portfolio agencies?

 

__.We are looking into it at this time... Are you taking the lead for all

Thanks
Julie

Julie Gagnon, S/Sergeant/s.é.-m.
NCO i/c Media Relations / sous-officier en charge des relations avec les médias
1
000148
9.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

RCMP National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication de la GRC

73 Leikin Dr. / 73 promenade Leikin

suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeuble M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613) 843-5999

Fax/Téléc.: (613) 825-8250

julie.gagnon@remp-gre.gc.ca

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there
seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +» Public Safety Sécurité publique

Ganada Canada

 
 

mailto: |
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 A
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

 

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

000149
Document Released Under ue Access to

paeie if t/ Document ue en vertu
TP loon
iigils en vertu

de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

blog and Ask.fm entries — which we studied with a view to understanding their use of online
platforms, behaviors, interactions, and changes in attitude. .

For this section, we aimed to create a first — and, arguably, very broad — impression of how the

’ wannabe fighters in our sample have used the internet. To understand change and innovation, we
compared our empirical findings to earlier research about jihadist online behavior. Crucially, we
then looked for evidence of potential crossovers between fighters’ use of the internet and the
online campaigns of jihadist groups like the Islamic State. The result is a first sketch of wannabe
foreign fighters’ online ecosystem which — in our view — consists of three pillars: use of open
platforms; personal outreach; and “fanboy socialization’.

Open Platforms

Our first observation is wannabe fighters’ widespread use of open, mainstream platforms like
Facebook, Twitter, and — more recently - Telegram. All the wannabe fighters in our sample had
such accounts which they used extensively to discuss political and religious issues, as well as
their attitudes towards the conflict, Western society, and the idea of making hijra (that is, going
to Syria).?° The openness of these platforms didn’t deter them. At the time of observation, even
sensitive discussions were frequently conducted via unlocked Twitter accounts, and Facebook
pages remained relatively open (though this may have changed in recent months). In this respect,
the British wannabes in our sample were typical of many Western fighters who maintain
accounts on at least one of the platforms.

The use of open platforms stands in marked contrast to earlier periods when the majority of
jihadist sympathizers populated stand-alone websites, so-called ‘forums’. The forums were often
password-protected, and people had to be introduced by existing members or spend considerable
periods gaining ‘credibility’ in order to gain access to closed discussions.*! The move to open -
platforms has lowered the threshold to becoming involved in the jihadist milieu. Wannabes no
longer need to seek out forums and subject themselves to a complex process of admission. They
are able to ‘dabble’ in jihadist discussions without having to fully commit to the cause, or
confront potentially troubling questions about legality which signing up to a closed forum might
raise.

Another consequence is that wannabe fighters are exposed to a wider range of material, allowing
for greater eclecticism and, by definition, reducing the relative impact of any one particular
source. Among the memes, pictures, articles, and videos that wannabe jihadists posted on their
accounts was output from mainstream television channels, non-jihadist religious sources,
NGO’s, and think tanks. What’s more, the explicitly jihadist content originated with fighters,

® The concept of hijra relates to the Prophet Mohammed's journey from Mecca to Medina, and is frequently
invoked by jihadists to justify (and mandate) the migration to a foreign land where Muslims face injustice or

oppression. See xxx
34 For an overview of the jihadist discussion forum ‘scene’, see Mohammed Ali Musawi, Cheering for Osama: How

Jinadists Use internet Discussion Forums (London: Quilliam, 2010), esp. Chapter 1; available at
!

 

use-the-internet- -forums.pdf.

000013
- 000015
  

_ pgp fingerprint:
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

 

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

000150
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 5(1) - Subv . Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
s.1 9(1) de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:58 PM

To: . ‘Julie Gagnon’; CSEC-CSTC, Media; Delisle, Annie;
Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca; Pfleiderer, Harold; .

Ce: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News-/ Does Public Safety use Palantir © software?

Hi Julie,

Given that CSE and CSIS are both ready to go with a response, we will ask that the RCMP respond directly as well.
Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Julie Gagnon [mailto:julie.gagnon@rcmp-grc.gc.ca]
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:10 PM

To: (CSEC-CST! C, Media; Delisle Annie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); _; Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.qc.ca;

 

 
 

Cc: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Allo jean-Philippe,
We have received the same request from Mr. __..We are looking into it at this time... Are you taking the lead for all
the portfolio agencies?

Thanks
Julie

Julie Gagnon, S/Sergeant/s.é.-m.

NCO i/c Media Relations / sous-officier en charge des relations avec les médias
RCMP National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication de la GRC

73 Leikin Dr. / 73 promenade Leikin

suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeuble M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613) 843-5999

Fax/Téléc.: (613) 825-8250

julie.gagnon@rcmp-gre.ge.ca

>>> “Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

000151
s.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'aceés 4 l'information

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there

seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

From: oo | [mailto | ||| @cbc.ca]
Sent: monday, May 0 08, 2017 11: 36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

   

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

   

|_| @gmail.com

 
 
 

- pep: https: Tkeybase. i
. pgp fingerprint: __ :
. secure drop: https: HIsecuredrop, cbe.ca/

000152
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 5(1 ) - Subv Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
: de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:57 PM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Will do.

JP Levert

 

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:54 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Given that CSE and CSIS are both ready to go with a response, you can get back to RCMP and ask them to respond
directly as well.

Thanks
-Andrew

 

 

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:22 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

| think I’d rather just answer for us. Trying to coordinate all of the various contracting units of all the portfolios will be a
pain. Let’s see what our own people come up with and then see who would respond.

Thanks
-Andrew

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:17 PM

To: Julie Gagnon; CSEC-CSTC, Media; Delisle, Annie; |) Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca; Pfleiderer,
Harold; Frrmrrr”:~tsisCi

Cc: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

No confirmation on the lead at this point, but | assume that PS would take the lead if the response implicates PS-
Portfolio agencies.

‘Vil keep you posted.

JP Levert

 

From: Julie Gagnon [mailto:julie.gagnon@remp-gre.ge.ca]
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:10 PM

To: CSEC-CSTC, Media; Delisle, Annie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP);
Pfleiderer, Harold;

 

3 Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca;

 

000153
s 19(1) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Cc: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Ailo jean-Philippe,

We have received the same request from Mr. Braga...We are looking into it at this time... Are you taking the lead for all
the portfolio agencies?

Thanks
Julie

Julie Gagnon, S/Sergeant/s.é.-m.

NCO i/c Media Relations / sous-officier en charge des relations avec les médias
RCMP National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication de la GRC

73 Leikin Dr. / 73 promenade Leikin

suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeuble M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613) 843-5999

Fax/Téléc.: (613) 825-8250

julie. gagnon@remp-are.gc.ca

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST: |

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there
seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division: | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +i Public Safety Sécurité publique
Ganada Canada

000154
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

   

From: a == [mailto: | @cbe.ca]
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

Thanks,

   

. pgp: https: Ukevbas AO,
. pgp fingerprint:

. secure drop: https: ‘/isecuredrop. cbe. cal

000155
s.15(1) - Subv Document Released Under the Access to
: _ Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
s.19(1) de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP) |

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP}

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:54 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir © software?

Given that CSE and CSIS are both ready to go with a response, you can get back to RCMP and ask them to respond
directly as well.

Thanks
-Andrew

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:22 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

I think I’d rather just answer for us. Trying to coordinate all of the various contracting units of all the portfolios will be a
pain. Let’s see what our own people come up with and then see who would respond.

Thanks
-Andrew

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:17 PM
To: Julie Gagnon; CSEC-CST c, Media; Delisle, Annie; |

 

"cn Media Relations@cbsa-asfc.ac.ca; Pfleiderer,

Ca: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

No confirmation on the lead at this point, but | assume that PS would take the lead if the response implicates PS-
Portfolio agencies.

I'll keep you posted.

JP Levert

From: Julie Gagnon [mailto: julie. gagnon@remp-are. ac. cal
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:10 PM

 
   

prleiderer, Harold;
Cc: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Allo jean-Philippe,

We have received the same request from Mr. ..We are looking into it at this time... Are you taking the lead for all

the portfolio agencies?

 

Thanks

000156
1911 Document Released Under the Access to
5. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Julie

Julie Gagnon, S/Sergeant/s.é.-m.

NCO i/c Media Relations / sous-officier en charge des relations avec les médias
RCMP National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication de la GRC

73 Leikin Dr. / 73 promenade Leikin

suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeubie M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613) 843-5999

Fax/Téléc.: (613) 825-8250

julie. gagnon@rcmp-agrc.gc.ca

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software. —

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there
seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i + i Public Safety Sécurité publique

Canada Canada

  

From: | _{mailto:

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

000157
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
' Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

 

   

Thanks,

 

   
  
 

   

-email:
. pgp: https://keybase.i

. pgp fingerprint: __
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

000158
Document Released Under the Access to
8.1 5(1 ) - Subv Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

 

From: Media CSEC-CSTC <Media@CSE-CST.GC.CA>
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:50 PM

 

 

To: : Media CSEC-CSTC; ___ Julie Gagnon; Delisle, Annie; Levert Jean- -Philippe
(PS/SP); Media. Relations @cbsa- asfc.gc.ca; Pfleiderer, Harold;

Ce: , Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Lauzon, Raymond

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Follow Up Fiag: Follow up

Flag Status: Completed

Classification: UNCLASSIFIED

For info, here is the proposed CSE response: As | am sure you can understand, CSE is not able to discuss details
concerning which companies we do or do not have a business relationship with. As a result, we are unable to confirm
whether we use Palantir products.

 

 

From: Media CSEC-CSTC
Sent: May-08-17 2:36 PM

a _. Julie Gagnon; Media CSEC-CSTC; Delisle, Annie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP);
Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca; Pfleiderer, Harold; .
Cc: Gowing, Andrew(PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, “Karine (PS/SP); Raymond LAUZON
Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 
     

Classification: UNCLASSIFIED

CSE has also received the same questions. Not something we would comment on either. Expect to send a response to
that effect soon.

 

 

From: |
Sent: May-08-17 2: 28 PM

To: Julie Gagnon; Media CSEC- CSTC; Delisle, Annie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.qc.ca;
Pfleiderer, Harold; ao _
Cc: Gowing, Andrew( /SP); renier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Raymond LAUZON
Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

 

   

- We got one too - something we wouldn't comment on.

We are looking into this.

Sent from my BlackBerry 10 smartphone on the Rogers network.

From: Julie Gagnon
Sent: Monday, May 8, 2017 2:21 PM —_
To: CSEC-CSTC, Media; Delisle, Annie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP);

1

. 5 Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.qc.ca;

 

000159
Rocument Released Under the Access to

HBAE RbaDAP Una dy auesel gente
pe ateh AAT BSciMs Bin aiviliglte en vertu
de Ia Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

disseminators, religious ‘cheerleaders’, and other fanboys — not only jihadist groups and their
media production entities. This doesn’t mean that wannabe fighters can easily be swayed or
influenced: the material they disseminate tends to reinforce their jihadist worldview — whatever
the source. But it demonstrates that material produced by jihadist groups like Islamic State is not
their only source of information, nor does it seem to have an exceptionally strong impact.

Personal Outreach —

Another important characteristic of wannabes’ online behavior is attempts to reach out to foreign
fighters in Syria or Iraq. From the wannabes’ perspective, being in direct communication with
fighters on the ground is an exciting way of learning about the conflict; it enables them to take
part in the life of people they identify with; and it represents a first-hand source of information
about how to get to Syria. The fighters in our sample used different methods for getting in touch
with fighters. Some did so openly, through Tweets or by posting on fighters’ Facebook pages.
Others used Ask.fm, which allows for questions to be asked anonymously, or requested fighters
to connect via private messaging services (such as KiK and Whatsapp) and Twitter’s direct
message function.

The ability to communicate with fighters is a relatively recent phenomenon. In earlier periods,
wannabes used to be limited to hanging out in forums, talking to each other and consuming the
latest news and videos from the frontlines. Early jikobbyists such as Younis Tsouli (‘Irhabi007’)
gained prominence because they were seen as “being close’ to groups like al Qaeda in Iraq,
though everyone realized they weren’t members and hadn’t ever stepped into a conflict zone.”
Anwar al Awlaki, the radical preacher who made it his mission to incite homegrown ‘lone
wolves’ in the late 2000s, was the first major jihadist figure to cultivate fanboys through his
blog.”? The first actual fighter to communicate with wannabes on a regular basis was Omar
Hammami, an American who had joined al Shabab in Somalia, but his outreach efforts were
isolated, erratic and, ultimately, short-lived.*4

It remains unclear to what extent the communication between Syria wannabes and fighters is .
directed by jihadist groups and whether, therefore, the personal outreach is a deliberate and
organized part of their social media campaigns. While it seems clear that many groups regard
fighters’ personal social media activity as desirable, we are confident that most of the fighters we
have spoken to maintain their Twitter and Facebook accounts (more or less) autonomously. The
communication between wannabes and fighters appears to be mostly self-initiated, and though
faced with restrictions in relation to what they can and can’t say, the exchanges are never entirely |
scripted or choreographed. oo,

Fanboy Socialization

32 Soe Rita Katz and Michae! Kern, ‘Terrorist 007, Exposed’, Washington Post, 26 March 2006.
38 yarret M. Brachman and Alix N. Levine, ‘You Too Can Be Awlaki’, The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, 35(1)

(2011), pp. 27-32.
* |.M. Berger, ‘Omar and Me: My Strange and Frustrating Retationship with an American Terrorist’, Foreign Policy,

17 September 2013.
, 9
000014
000016
s.15(1) - Subv Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
s.19(1) de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

Pfleiderer, Harold;
_Ce: Gowing, Andrew(PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Allo jean-Philippe,

_ We are looking into it at this time... Are you taking the lead for all

 

We have received the same request from Mr.:
the portfolio agencies?

Thanks
Julie

Julie Gagnon, S/Sergeant/s.é.-m.

NCO i/c Media Relations / sous-officier en charge des relations avec les médias
RCMP National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication de la GRC

73 Leikin Dr. / 73 promenade Leikin

suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeuble M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613) 843-5999

Fax/Téléc.: (613) 825-8250

julie.gagnon@rcmp-grc.ge.ca

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there
_ seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,
Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i | Public Safety Sécurité publique

Canada Canada

000160
s.19(1) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

   

From: | 7 mailto:
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

 

000161
s.1 a(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Giolti, Patrizia <Patrizia.Giolti@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca>
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:37 PM

To: - Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Ce: Campbell, Barre Grant

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir — software?

Hi no calls with the CBSA — we are checking just the same. Thanks

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues, :

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data anatysis-for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

 

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there
seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,
Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

a a | Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

000162
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know-if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

Thanks

 

  
     

|, CBC News

. pgp: http lesa
. pgp fingerprint: |

. secure drop: https: //securedrop.cbe. cal

000163
s.1 5(1) - Subv Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
s.1 9(1) de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

 

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:06 PM

To: harold.pfleiderer@rcemp-gre.gc.ca; ou gagnon’; annie.delisle@rcmp-grc.gc.ca;
Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca; | ‘Media CSEC-
csTC’ .

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon colleagues,
Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

 

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i a | Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 

From: | :
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me

by EOD on this.

000164
s.19(1 ) : : Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

  
  

, CBC News

  

@cbe.ca|
. pep: https://keybase.io/ |
. pgp fingerprint: 32232 eeee
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

   
 

 

000165
s$.15(1) - Subv Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
s.19(1 ) de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

 

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:00 PM

To: Ho, Fenton (PS/SP); Taschereau, Rodrigue (PS/SP);__ = (PS/SP); Moshonas,
Jennifer (PS/SP); Randall, Alex (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your
consideration.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST: | — CBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
This might be for the agencies.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 

    

From: [mailto: -Dcbe.ca}
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

000166
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

  
 

__ CBC News

. secure drop: https: Hisecuredrop. ebec.ca/

000167
‘ Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
, de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)

From: Grenier, Julie (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 12:54 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Lachance, Nathaly (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP);
Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP)

Ce: : Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi J-P,

I’m not aware if we have any contracts or licences with Palantir. | suggest you check with Sophie Beecher, Director of NS

Intelligence. : ‘

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 12:03 PM

To: Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Lachance, Nathaly (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP)
Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good morning NCSB team,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your
consideration.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

JOURNALIST: 22

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who in NS might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their
software.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

+] Public Safety Sécurité publique
i Canada Ganada

000168
1911 Document Released Under the Access to
s. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this. ,

 

Thanks,

 

. Office: |
cell:
. twitter: @

    
  

. pep: https://keybase.io/.
- pep fingerprint:
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

 

000169
Document Released Under the Access to
. nigenation Acleddaa ureter dia!kuuees eprtu
dintarkration Katy poauiisat avtigue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a information

The third pillar of wannabe fighters’ online ecosystem is interaction. Most of the time they spent
’ online, the wannabes in our sample were busy sharing content, messaging friends, bouncing off
ideas, or reading what others had posted. This came as no surprise. Social media is, by definition,
social: its principal aim and purpose is to facilitate social interaction by electronic means. What
struck us was the extent to which online interaction seemed to be central to their sense of being
part of the movement, and how it played an important role in creating a sense of duty and mutual
obligation. In many cases, online interaction spilled over into face to face meetings. In others, it
was used to connect individuals or help them gain entry into Syria. In either case, what happened
online (often) didn’t remain online: its purpose and direction was to facilitate offline meetings
through which online contacts and friendships could be mobilized and/or turned into ‘action’.

This is nothing new. As long ago as 2007, when jihadists were hanging out in password-
protected forums and Twitter and Facebook had only just started becoming household names,
Marc Sageman identified social interaction as a key variable in online radicalization. He said:

[The internet] is based on interactivity between the members, which makes participants in
[extremist online] forums change their mind. Some of the participants get so worked up
that they declare themselves ready to be terrorists... Since this process takes place at
home, often i in, the parental home, it facilitates the emergence of homegrown
radicalization.>>

The means and platforms through which online interaction takes place have changed, however.
Since the forums have stopped being the virtual ‘town squares’ in which jihadist fanboys met
and congregated, most of the fanboy socialization now takes place on open-platforms like
Twitter and then, often, migrates towards protected communications such as private messaging
applications.

The impact of Islamic State media output on this process is marginal. The group’s official videos
and statements may, at times, be a ‘conversation starter’, but more important — and far more
popular — are individual fighters’ messages and pictures which the Islamic State controls only to
a certain extent yet often spark prolonged interactions. Indeed, many of the conversations have
nothing to do with the situation in Syria but are centered on day to day experiences, the flaws
and failings of Western society, and casual jokes and banter.

The Islamic State’s media campaign, therefore, is — at best — a background noise which may be .
important during the initial process of radicalisation but ceases to be central when fighters move
from cognitive extremism to violent mobilization. The use of open platforms, direct
communications with fighters, and interaction among each other are all crucial components of
the wannabe fighters’ online ecosystem. How they affect their decision to become foreign
fighters will be the subject of the following chapters.

 

8 Mare Sageman before the U.S Senate, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Hearing
on Violent Islamist Extremism: The European Experience, June 27, 2007, pp. 1-2.

10
000015

000017
s.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)}

Sent: , Monday, May 08, 2017 12:03 PM

To: Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Lachance, Nathaly (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Scott,
Isabelle (PS/SP)

Cec: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good morning NCSB team,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your
consideration.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

 

JOURNALIST: =

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Paiantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately. ,

Please advise who in NS might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their
software.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i + Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

= @cbc.ca]

 

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me

by EOD on this.

000170
s.19(1)

   

    

 

. pgp: https://keybase.io/ | |

-pgpfingerprint :

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

000171
8.15(1) - Subv
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject:

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Tuesday, May 09, 2017 5:02 PM

Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Slack, Jessica (PS/SP); Berzel, Ruth
(PS/SP); Bruneau, Lise (PS/SP); Bruneau, Véronique (PS/SP); 'CBSA Media Relations’;
Communications Issues Management / Communications Gestion des Enjeux (PS/SP);
‘CSC Media Relations’; ‘Daoust, Normand (PS/SP’; ‘Derek Cefaloni'; Howe2, Susan
(PS/SP); Jackson, Elyse (PS/SP); ‘julie gagnon’; Larrivee, Lesley (PS/SP); Leclair, Natalie
(PS/SP); MacNeil, Shauna (PS/SP); Magee, Heather (PS/SP); ‘Mark Prieur’; McAteer, Julie
(PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); ‘Nadine.Archambault@PBC-CLCC.GC.CA’; PS.F
Media Monitoring / surveillance des médias F.SP; Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP); Taillefer, Lucie
(PS/SP); Tomlinson, Jamie (PS/SP); Murdock, Lyndon (PS/SP); Miller, Kevin (PS/SP);
Morais, Josee (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Nichols, Megan (PS/SP); McNaughtan,
Jennifer (Ext.); Badger, Gillian (PS/SP); Baker3, Ryan (PS/SP); Danielle Nasrallah; Simplice,
Amanda (PS/SP); Gobeil, Renée (PS/SP); | : a Lachance, Nathaly
(PS/SP); Cibula, Colette (PS/SP); ‘christine. o'nions@pco- cp. gc. ca’; Sayarh, Omar (PS/SP);
Wherrett, Jill (PS/SP); Patriquin, Kimberly (PS/SP); Clegg, Cindy (PS/SP); Vigeant, Helene
(PS/SP); Lau, Henry (PS/SP); Bachand, Stephane (PS/SP); O'Brien2, Judith (PS/SP);
COMDO / COMDO (PS/SP)

Daily Media Report / Rapport média quotidien (09/05/17)

 

For your information, we have received nine new media requests on Tuesday, May 9" 2017. / Pour votre information,
nous avons recu neuf nouvelles demandes média en ce mardi, 9 mai 2017.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I’ve been asked to get clarity on this cost sharing stuff with regards to
the flood and natural disasters writ large. DND tells me they basically
send their incremental costs to Public Safety on a cost-recovery basis,
but I don’t Know what Public Safety does with them. Hoping you could

 

Reporter
Media Outlet Canadian Press
Telephone. _ oe
Call Date a 09/05/2017 12:45 AM
Status Consulting
Subject Flooding Costs
Questions 2 bee
walk me through it.
Response Oo _ /ded the following (looking for mor

MO has already provded the following (looking for more information):

This is a unique situation, a natural disaster and the government is here
to support Canadians in this time of need.

As the Prime Minister said, the federal government will cover the costs of
deploying the military, like in Quebec, for example, where they
requested this assistance.

These are difficult times for thousands of. citizens, who have shown that
helping each otheris a core part of our values. And we are here to help.

It is important to note, also, that there are no recent examples of the
Government of Canada charging a Province for providing assistance
during a natural disaster, including for the response efforts for the Fort

1
000172
5.19(1)

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone 7
Call Date
Status
Subject

Questions

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

McMurray wildfires. Our priority at this time remains focused on
providing Canadians in distressed regions with the support, aid and tools
they need to mitigate the flooding and keep communities safe.

  

Radio-Canada - Correspondante parlementaire

 
   

@radio-canada.ca

 

09/05/2017 11:35 AM

Consulting
Stratégie nationale d'atténuation des catastrophes du Canada

Est-ce que c'est la plus récente stratégie? :

https://www.securitepublique.gc.ca/cnt/rsrcs/pbictns, n-

strtagy/index-fr.aspx

Et M. Goodale a parlé d'une réunion avec les provinces et territoires sur
le sujet le mois prochain. Est-ce que tu as plus d'information la-dessus?

Received on May 9, 2017 at 4:05 pm:

J'ai laissé un message sur votre boite vocale.

Jaimerais savoir si un suivi a été fait pour ces trois recommandations de
la commissaire a l'environnement dans son rapport du printemps 2016.
Je m'intéresse particuligrement aux lignes directrices pour la
cartographie des plaines inondables. Ont-elles été émises?

Par ailleurs, a-t-on réexaminé les programmes d'atténuation depuis la
parution du rapport?

2.40Recommandation — Sécurité publique Canada, de concert avec les
parties prenantes clés, devrait élaborer des lignes directrices et des
hormes pour la cartographie des plaines inondables et encourager leur
application uniforme dans toutes les provinces et dans tous les
territoires.

2.84Recommandation — Sécurité publique Canada, en collaboration
avec d’autres ministéres, devrait examiner les programmes fédéraux de
financement des projets d’atténuation et déterminer les changements
qui pourraient y étre apportés de fagon a encourager les provinces et les
territoires a investir dans ce type de projets. Ces programmes devraient
soutenir a la fois les projets structuraux 4 grande et a petite échelle et
continuer 4 appuyer les projets non structuraux.

2.53Recommandation — De concert avec les partenaires fédéraux
clés, Sécurité publique Canada devrait mener des consultations aupres
des décideurs afin de mieux comprendre l'information dont ils ont besoin
pour appuyer leurs efforts de réduction des risques de catastrophes,

y compris ceux en matiére d’atténuation des effets du temps violent.

 

La Presse

 

09/05/2017 1:00 PM

Consulting
Brigade de voalontaires pour la protection civile

La journaliste voudrait savoir si le gouvernement songe a mettre sur
pied une brigade de volontaires pour la protection civile durant des
situations d'urgence.

000173
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

Reporter _
Media Outlet , CBC Montreal
Telephone
. E-mail Address

Call Date 09/05/2017 1:00 PM

 

Status ‘Consulting
Subject General pattern on flooding in Quebec
Questions The reporter searched the Canadian Disaster Database for flooding in

Quebec. He wants to know if floods in Quebec are getting more frequent
and severe. Is there a general pattern?

Reporter

 

Media Outlet Freelance - CBC radio

Telephone

    

E-mail Address

| @amail.com

 

Call Date 09/05/2017 1:10 PM

Deadline 12/05/2017 5:00 PM

Status . - Consulting

Subject Canadians having traveled to Kurdistan to fight ISIS

Questions My name is = |) 2 2 and I'ma freelancer for CBC Radio.

 

I'm doing a radio documentary on Canadians who have traveled to
Kurdistan in Syria and Iraq to fight ISIS, with an emphasis on Syria.

Proof: http://www.cbe.ca/radio/docproject/meet-our-new-mentees-
1.3987975

I was just wondering if Public Safety Canada had any estimates on how
many Canadians are currently in Kurdistan as part of the war against
ISIS. Even better would be if you know the divide between Syria and
Iraq.

I spoke to a graduate student at Laval University who is studying this
issue, and he estimates that there are about 40 Canadians (that's for
both Syria and Iraq). I was just wondering if I could get the
government's estimate of the number. I spoke to Global Affairs and they
directed me to you.

I'm not working on a tight deadline, but if I could get an estimate before
the end of the week that would be great.

 

Reporter
Media Outlet Le Devoir

 

Telephone

 
 

E-mail Address

L ‘@ledevoir.com
Call Date ‘ 09/05/2017 3:45 PM

 

Status Consulting
Subject Estimation des cofts des inondations au Québec
Questions . Le journaliste veut savoir si le gouvernement fédéral a une idée des

cotits engendrés par les inondations au Québec.

Reporter

 

000174
s.19(1)

Media Outlet
Telephone
Call Date
Status
Subject

Questions

Response

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Uactualité

 

08/05/2017 8:00 PM
Completed
Coitit des inondations

Le journaliste avait contacté Environnement Canada.

Le journaliste a des questions au sujet de cette page web :

 

Q1. « Cott par habitant », est-ce le codit par habitant affecté ou par tous
les canadiens affectés ou non?

Q2. Dans les tableaux a la toute fin, il y a une mention : Inondation pour
laquelle un paiement final n'a pas encore été fait. Ainsi, le chiffre indique
les paiements jusqu'ici et/ou les paiements estimatifs a venir. Certain de
ces événemenits ont eu lieu en 1991, pourquoi les données ne sont-elles
pas disponibles?

Le journaliste a été avisé par téléphone que la page a laquelle il faisait
référence datait de 2013. Il a été redirigé 4 la base de données
canadienne sur les désastres pour des informations 4 jour. Le cot par
habitant de la province a été confirmé.

 

ITWorldCanada
©)

    
 

 

09/05/2017 12:05 PM
09/05/2017 5:00 PM
Referred to MO

Government and cybersecurity

 

I'm the: of ITWorldCanada.com, now contributing writer to
the site on cyber security.

 

i Travis Reese, president of security provider
FireEye about a number of topics including whether the Canadian
government is doing enough to strengthen cyber security here. I'd like
to get comment from the government

Among the things he said

'™Your government is further behind other governments around the
world. It seems to me that you need to be doing a better job in terms of
bringing in cyber security education and awareness to make sure we're
involving the workforce. I think the government's got to make some
additional investments and think about creating the right level of cyber
visibility, victim notification programs, how to get the public-private
interaction working well. You're just starting to get serious, where you’re
going to see disclosure laws coming into place - the changes I think that
have evolved in other countries years ago [are] starting to take place,
based on some of the legislation, regulation and things the government
is starting to do here.”

He also said that the federal government has to do a better job in
sharing threat information it has with the private sector

"There’s much more formal public-private communications [in other
countries],,, there’s an evolution I think [Canada] needs to go through
where the government needs to get good visibility on to internet activity
from threat actors, and then create a public/private sharing mechanism
in a way that makes sure they’re getting the private community to
disclose the problems that are occurring so people can’t put their head in
the sand."

4
000175
s.19(1)

Response

Reporter

Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address ,
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

Response

CONSULTING:

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date :
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

MO RESPONSE: The Government of Canada coricluded a public
consultation that engaged stakeholders and all Canadians about the
trends and challenges of cybersecurity. The outcomes of this review will
inform policy and program decisions to help make Canada more resilient
and secure, improve public education about cybersecurity, and enhance
cybersecurity for all Canadians. Work on a renewed cyber strategy is on-

going.

 

CNN Atlanta

 

09/05/2017 12:30 PM

Completed
Web Page - Canadian Government Support to Flooding

The reporter was looking for the latest update on the flooding in Quebec
and Ontario and the number of deaths and disappearances related to the
floods.

As discussed on the phone, here is the web page for the current
information on the Canadian government support to flooding in Quebec
and Ontario. This web page is updated regularly.

https://www. publicsafety.gc.ca/cnt/nws/bkaqrndrs/20170508-en.aspx

For the number of deaths, please contact the provincial police la Sureté
du Québec at 1-877-598-4848.

 

Journal de Montréal

   

: @quebecormedia.com
08/05/2017 10:45 AM

 

08/05/2017 5:00 PM
Consulting
Facturation des services des FAC aux provinces et municipalités

1. Est-ce que les services des FAC (Forces Armées Canadienne) seront
facturés aux municipalités / provinces qui en ont fait la demande
pendant les inondations?

2, Est-ce au cabinet du ministre a déterminer les cotits?
3. Combien ces cotits sont-ils calculés?

Note:

The reporter asks the question in relation to this article from La Presse in
2013 article regarding CAF recovering costs through the provinces and
municipalities directly:

http://www. lapresse.ca/actualites/national/201301/10/01-4609989-

larmee-veut-facturer-son-aide.php
The reporter has originally contacted DND who answered his questions

with the following:
Nous avons conscience qu'il y aura des frais associés a l'aide fournie par

000176
s.19(1)

Approvals

(Follow-up) Questions

(Follow-up) Call Date

Reporter

Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline

Status

Subject

Questions

Response

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

les FAC au Québec et le gouvernement déterminera le mécanisme le plus
approprié pour supporter ces colits en temps utile. Pour le moment, nous
concentrons notre attention sur la collaboration avec les provinces afin
d'établir les capacités des FAC qui sont les plus nécessaires afin d'assurer
la sécurité des Canadiens.

Comme lI’‘a mentionné la Défense nationale, notre priorité pour le
moment est de donner aux Canadiens qui se trouvent dans les régions
sinistrées le soutien, aide et les outils dont ils ont besoin pour atténuer
les effets des inondations et se protéger.

Il serait prématuré de spéculer sur les codts associés a la situation
entourant les inondations actuelles au Québec et en Ontario, ou sur le
mécanisme exact qui sera employé pour couvrir ces colts.

Est-ce qu'une facture avait été envoyée au Nouveau-Brunswick pour le
déploiement des FAC pendant le verglas cet hiver (2017) ?

The reporter also contacted DND with the following: This particular
reporter came back to us and would like to know if the CAF has ever
“sent a bill to the provinces” since 2013 for Op LENTUS deployments and
if so, how many times? He’s asking in the context of this article:
http://www. lapresse.ca/actualites/national/201301/10/01-4609989-
larmee-veut-facturer-son-aide.php

I checked with our folks here, and I’m told that DND/CAF wouldn’t be
able to answer this. Apparently, after each Op LENTUS mission, the CAF
compiles all of the “receipts” and sends them up the chain to the
Minister’s Office who then coordinates with Public Safety (as the overall
lead). At that point, it’s decided who foots the bill.

Would you guys be in a position to answer this request?

08/05/2017 3:30 PM

Le Devoir

    
 

| @ledevoir.com

 

08/05/2017 12:30 PM
08/05/2017 5:00 PM

Consulting

Inondations et facture de |'armée

Je cherche a savoir si les frais associés par l'aide fournie par les FAC en
réponse aux inondations au Québec seront facturés. Défense nationale
m’a référé chez vous

Est-ce que le cout différentiel («incremental cost») de |’assistance de la
Défense nationale pour les inondations au Québec sera facturé? Si oui, la
facture sera acheminée a qui? gouvernement provincial? municipal?

Et a-t-on un estimé du cotit par jour du déploiement actuel de 1200
soldats en réponse aux inondations?

Par ailleurs, pouvez-vous m’‘indiquer le dernier décompte des soldats
déployés par région?

Notre priorité pour le moment est de donner aux Canadiens qui se
trouvent dans les régions sinistrées le soutien, l’aide et les outils dont ils
ont besoin pour atténuer ies effets des inondations et se protéger.

Il serait prématuré de spéculer sur les cofits associés a la situation
entourant les inondations actuelles au Québec et en Ontario, ou sur le
mécanisme exact qui sera employé pour couvrir ces colits.

000177
s.19(1)

(Follow-up) Questions

(Follow-up) Call Date

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
Call Date
Status
Subject

Questions

Interview requested
Interview granted

Actions Taken

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

CLOSED:

Reporter
Media Outlet
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

 

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

De plus, tel que mentionné par le Ministre Sajjan de la Défense et des
Forces armées canadiennes, 1650 soldats sont actuellement déployés au
Québec.

Pourriez-vous m‘expliquer en background le changement de politique qui
a été adopté en 2012 et qui fait en sorte que l‘armée facture désormais
son assistance? J’essaie juste de comprendre le pourquoi du
changement, et 4 combien de reprises depuis ce changement de
politique la Défense a-t-elle été déployée au Canada pour aider a une
crise naturelle comme ces inondations.

08/05/2017 4:30 PM

 

Radio-Canada Manitoba

  

08/05/2017 5:00 PM
Consulting
Semaine sur la sécurité publique

a __ de Radio-Canada Manitoba voudrait faire une entrevue
avec un expert dans le cadre de la semaine sur la sécurité publique.

  

Yes
No

J'ai laissé un message au journaliste lui demandant de nous acheminer
un courriel incluant Jes détails de sa demande.

99.1 FM CKXS | Your Music Variety

   
  

_ Ockxsfm.com
01/05/2017 3:30 PM
Consulting

Emergency Preparedness Week Interview

 

My name is. - & Lam with 99.1fm CKXS & I am looking at
doing a recoarded interview for our news room about Emergency
Preparedness Week. I can be contacted @ |

 

What is the importance of Emergency Preparedness Week?

What are some emergencies that people in Chatham-Kent should be
prepared for?

What should be in the 72-hour emergency kit?

 

Bloomberg BNA

 

 

26/04/2017 11:35 AM
Completed

Cyber-security interview - Canadian businesses

7
000178
3.19(1)

Questions

Interview requested
Interview granted
Actions Taken

Reporter

Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

Response

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
Call Date
Status
Subject

Questions

Response

(Follow-up) Questions

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

I'm writing a piece for Bloomberg BNA’s Privacy & Security Law Report
on the growing threat of cyber-security. Would Public Safety Canada be
able to make someone available for an interview on the federal
government's role in helping Canadian businesses protect themselves?

Thank you very much, in advance, for any help you can provide!
Yes
Yes

Interview granted by Adam Hatfield on May 9, 2017 at 11:30 am.

 

 

Cogeco - 98.5 - "Québec maintenant"

 

 

03/05/2017 9:55 AM
Completed

Hauts dirigeants syriens ajoutés a liste de personnes visées par
sanctions

Le journaliste a contacté Affaires mondiales Canada concernant le
communiqué de presse intitulé: Le Canada ajoute de hauts dirigeants
syriens a ta liste des personnes visées par des sanctions.

Questions:
Quelles sont les sanctions, en général?

Est-ce que la liste comprends des hauts dirigeants syriens qui ont une
double citoyenneté canadienne ou un un statut de résident permanent
au Canada? ‘

Si oui, quelies seront les sanctions appliquées envers ces personnes?

***l e journaliste a été référé 4 Sécurité publique Canada par I'équipe de
relations médiatiques d'Affaires mondiales Canada. :

Sécurité publique Canada n'est pas en mesure de donner plus
d'information que ce qui a déja été offert par Affaires mondiales Canada.

 

NBC

 

08/05/2017 12:00 AM

Referred to CBSA

Illegal crossings numbers

 
 

__ is looking the latest numbers of the number of people who

have crossed the borders in Canada from the United States.

 

Here is the link for Key figures on asylum claims made in Canada.

Kind regards,

I'm just trying to confirm which is the best number to refer to when
representing the total number of people who've crossed the border this
year. I assume it is the last table (National Total of Asylum
Claimants processed by the CBSA and IRCC, January - March

8
000179
Document Released Under the Access to

Infegmatienrtesrebasd! Dred dive levees ye'tu
derifobabtibh aSce lini eniRgué en vertu
de la Loi sur Faccés a l'information

The Pains of Inaction

Much of the literature has focused on the Islamic State’s official propaganda, a sophisticated
enterprise coordinated through an extensive network of media offices and affiliated
distributors.** With the notable exception of Erin Saltman and Melanie Smith's work on the
recruitment of Western women to the conflict; little research has been done into how recruits
interact with the less sophisticated, unofficial material produced and disseminated by
sympathisers, much of which was produced before the establishment of the Caliphate. While this
report does not have the capacity to fully investigate the extent to which the material affected the
recruits desire to mobilise, an investigation of how recruits interacted with the material does

’ illustrate a cycle of interaction that contributes towards our understanding of its effects on their
desire to mobilise.

The cycle as a whole is referred to as pains of inaction and consists of three interrelated
responses, which will be explained below; moral outrage — inadequacy of non-violent activism —
need for action. Using primary social media data, which has been cited in the text and presented
the appendix, the reactions of a sample of recruits can be analysed to provide an insight into the

- online material’s radicalising effects.

Recruit Reaction

While the motivations for foreign fighters have been shown to differ over time, a consistent
theme promulgated by rebels groups and supporters has been that of injustice, both against
Muslims as a whole and towards the Syrian people from the Assad regime, and the subsequent
need to protect them. This has fuelled radical jihadist propaganda, which has used the draconian
tactics of the Syrian state to instil powerful and compelling feelings of shame, humiliation, and
unworthiness in the minds of recruits.

The reaction from recruits can be explained using framing theory. The theory focuses on the
socialization, attraction and mobilization of supporters via the construction of a collective
identity.?” Events are framed through an ‘interpretative schemata’ which groups such as IS use to
“locate, perceive, identify and label occurrences within their life space and the world at large.”*®
Tarrow describes a three stage process stresses in which frames form around social occurrences
of injustice.°? First, a diagnostic frame is introduced that outlines problems as unjust and
attributes blame; second, groups create a prognostic frame that proposes potential tactics and
strategies to confront the previously diagnosed problem; finally, the group creates a persuasive,
motivational rationale to prompt action.

3 From the IS central leadership comes six media ‘foundations’ that have thirty-five provincial offices across the

Maghreb and the Levant. See Winter (2015), p. 15.
- §” arrow, S., Power in Movement: Social Movements and Contentious Politics, New York, Cambridge University

Press, 3rd Ed., 2011, pp. 141-156
38 Benford, R.D. & Snow, D., ‘Framing Processes and Social Movements: An Overview and Assessments’ Annual

Review of Sociology Vol. 26, "2000, p. 614
9 ap LarTow (2011), p. 145
© Ibid. p. 145

11

000016
000018
s$.19(1)

(Follow-up) Call Date

(Follow-up) Deadline

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Response

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

2017) that shows the total number of people to be 8,960? In that case,
you only have 395 people who've crossed at the Emerson border so far
this year, correct? Have Ontario and Quebec always been the most
crossed provinces? If so, why the international attention on Emerson?

Second Follow-up: May 9 at 3:50 pm:

Thank you again for your help in finding answers to my questions. Just
to reiterate: I’m looking to confirm which set of numbers I should use,
as referenced in my original message. I'd also be curious if you’re
planning on updating those numbers soon to include the month of May.
Beyond that, would the government have any statistics on the ethnic
breakdown of those refugees crossing the border? I’m also interested in
whether there's any information about the criminal rates among them
AND the number of people crossing who are actually children (any kind
of age breakdown available?).

Finally, I understood from my interviews it typically takes refugees
anywhere from two to four months before they find out whether they’ve
received refugee status in Canada. Do you happen to know the
percentage of people who currently qualify for that status?

I know I’m asking a lot of specifics here. Please let me know if I also
need to contact another department.

08/05/2017 5:45 PM
10/05/2017 10:00 AM

 

08/05/2017 11:40 AM

08/05/2017 5:00 PM
Completed
Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir
Technologies. Do you know if Public Safety has any contracts with them,
or has purchased licenses for their software?

The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our
approved software list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously
had, a contract with Palantir.

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i | Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

000180
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 3:10 PM

To: christine.o'nions@pco-bcp.gc.ca; ‘Brunette, Lynn’

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Wilson, Ashleigh (PS/SP); Tomlinson,
Jamie (PS/SP); Lindblad, Anabel (Anabel.Lindbtad@pco-bcp.gc.ca)

Subject: Media request for PCO awareness: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon Christine, Lynn,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis and our response
for your awareness.

DEADLINE: 5 pm yesterday. Reporter has followed-up today.

JOURNALIST:|. — CBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

REPSONSE: The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not
have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i a | Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

_Ocbc.ca

 

From:
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11: 36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me

by EOD on this.

000181
s.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Thanks,

    

 

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

000182
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Brien, Dan (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 3:07 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Bardsley, Scott (PS/SP)

Ce: - Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Wilson, Ashleigh (PS/SP); Tomlinson,
Jamie (PS/SP); Peirce, Hilary (PS/SP); Pike, Cory (PS/SP); Milech, Michael (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request for MO’s immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use

Palantir software?

Looks fine thanks

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 3:03 PM

To: Bardsley, Scott (PS/SP); Brien, Dan (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Wilson, Ashleigh (PS/SP); Tomlinson, Jamie (PS/SP); Peirce, Hilary
(PS/SP); Pike, Cory (PS/SP); Milech, Michael (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request for MO's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon Scott, Dan,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis and a proposed
response for your approval.

DEADLINE: 5 pm yesterday. Reporter has followed-up today.

 

 

JOURNALIST: | -— CBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

PROPOSED REPSONSE: The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software
list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +i Public Safety Sécurité pultfique
Canada Canada

000183
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

    

From: “7 [mailto lf PS SPN ache.cal
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

 
  
 

vemail; ‘@cboca| =
"pep: https://keybase. olf Simi

. pep fingerprint:
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

000184
s.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 3:00 PM

To: Tomlinson, Jamie (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Wilson, Ashleigh (PS/SP); Coates, Liza-
Ann (PS/SP) ,

Subject: Media request for DG Tomlinson's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety

use Palantir software?

Good afternoon Jamie,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis and a proposed
response for your approval.

DEADLINE: 5 pm yesterday. Reporter has followed-up today.

JOURNALIST:,

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

PROPOSED REPSONSE: The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software
list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir

APPROVED BY:

Alex Martel (For GOC)

Adam Hatfield (For CCIRC)
Guylaine Tremblay

CMB ADM (For rest of department}
Andrew

Ashleigh

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert ,

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201 ©

i | Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

000185
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

cbc.ca

 

From: | :
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

 

 

 
   
  

: CBC News

. pgp: https: ikeybase.io
. pgp fingerprint:
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

000186
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. . Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:51 PM

To: , Wilson, Ashleigh (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request for Ashleigh's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use

Palantir software?

Good afternoon Ashleigh,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis and a proposed
response for your approval.

DEADLINE: 5 pm yesterday. Reporter has followed-up today.

JOURNALIST: | — CBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

PROPOSED REPSONSE: The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is ita part of our approved software
list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir

APPROVED BY:

Alex Martel (For GOC)

Adam Hatfield (For CCIRC)
Guylaine Tremblay

CMB ADM (For rest of department)
Andrew

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 

]

From:
Sent: Monday, May 08, 5017 11:36 AM

000187
4914 Document Released Under the Access to
Ss. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

 

 

 

__, CBC News

 

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

000188
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1) : Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP) . .

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: ' Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:48 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request for Andrew's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use

Palantir software?

Approved. Thanks.

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)
Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:42 PM
To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request for Andrew's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Andrew,
Just following up. (Reporter's deadline was yesterday and he has followed-up today) -
Thanks,

JP Levert

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:08 PM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request for Andrew's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon Andrew,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis anda proposed
response for your approval.

DEADLINE: 5 pm yesterday. Reporter has followed-up today.

 

JOURNALIST:

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

PROPOSED REPSONSE: The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software
list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir

APPROVED BY:

Alex Martel (For GOC)

Adam Hatfield (For CCIRC)
Guylaine Tremblay

CMB ADM (For rest of department)

000189
Document Released Under the Access to

Inbeeoniont Reledeed waar diaikuseee tee tu
dintarhnittin Meer Omauritéat enetigne en vertu
de fa Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

In this instance, the grievance coagulates around the “intra-Sunni solidarity norm” as described
by Hegghammer.*! The norm creates an inclination to support “fellow Muslims in need” and
since being reinterpreted from a collective duty to an individual duty by Abdullah Azzam in the
lead up to the Afghan- Soviet war,” has been consistently repeated by ideologues since the first
throws of the Revolution.” This theme has remained prevalent i in Islamic State’s current
propaganda. Victimhood i is identified by Winter as one of the six core themes found within the
broader strategy.“* The video circulated of the death of the Jordanian pilot Muadh al Kasabeh,
edited together with sequences of coalition airstrikes to illustrate retributive violence
theologically justified by gisas, is a notable example.“ Scores of similar messaging can be
found on the Internet, employing highly emotive terminology referencing persecution,
oppression, injustice, and sexual violence.

In many cases, militant groups operating on the ground have referenced this themselves. An
Australian foreign fighter with Islamic State featured in a video explaining the frame of mind
that led him to migrate — or make hijrah — to Syria. Ina video specifically aimed at Western and
English-speaking Muslims, he said:

“What am I doing? I have a good life here [in Australia]. I have a good job. I have an
income. I have a car. I have a house. What sacrifice have I done for the sake of Allah? I
can’t think of anything. All these nights we sleep comfortably [in the West], I thought
about the people overseas and in the Muslim lands who are suffering, and this is when
my journey really started beginning. 46

This passage touches upon a number of common themes that are noticeable among all of the
British fighters in our sample prior to their departure for Syria. The pains of inaction suffered by .
a particular fighter typically consist of three constituent components, or frames, which drive their
radicalisation and desire to mobilise - moral outrage (diagnostic), frustration with the inadequacy
of non-violent activism (prognostic), and a belief in the need for decisive action to defend the
ummah (motivational rationale). Fighters tend to pass through all these emotional phases before
feeling compelled to act — in this case, by j joining militant groups in Syria.”

Moral outrage

“| Hepehammer, T., ‘Syria’s Foreign Fighters’, Foreign Policy, December 9%, 2013, last accessed on August 26°,
2015 at http: //foreignpolicy. com/2013/12/09/syrias-foreign-fighters/ ;

1 5e Hegghammer (2010/2011)

3 From as early as 2012, Saudi cleric Sheikh Mohammed al-Arifi, began i issuing calls to jihad, particular to the -
West. See “Isis: Meet the cleric ‘encouraging British Muslims’ to fight jihad”, Channel 4 News, YouTube, June 26"
2014, last accessed August 26", 2015 at https:/Awww.youtube. com/watch?v=qnpfsr9p 7n4&feature=youtu.be
“4 «, Winter (2015), p. 25

i Healing of the believers’ chests”, al-Furqan Foundation, February 3“ 2015

4 «Stories from the land of the living: the story of Abu Khalid al-Cambodi from Australia,’ Al-Hayat Media, 21
April 2015
5" See Appendix; Figure 1

12

000017

000019
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information
NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safely Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 
 

a | (mailto: |
y, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

   

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

 

, CBC News

 

 

. office:
cells.
. twitter: @
email: 2. ooo
. pgp: https://keybase.ios
. pgp fingerprint: |
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

 
   
  
 
  

000190
4914 : Document Released Under the Access to
Ss. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:42°PM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request for Andrew's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use

Palantir software?

Hi Andrew,
Just following up. (Reporter’s deadline was yesterday and he has followed-up today)
Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:08 PM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP) ;

Subject: Media request for Andrew's immediate approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon Andrew,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis and a proposed
response for your approval.

DEADLINE: 5 pm yesterday. Reporter has followed-up today.

JOURNALIST: — CBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

PROPOSED REPSONSE: The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is ita part of our approved software
list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir

APPROVED BY:

Alex Martel (For GOC)

Adam Hatfield (For CCIRC)
Guylaine Tremblay

CMB ADM (For rest of department)

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

000191
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. . Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Ganada Canada

 

]
Sent: “Monday, May 08, 2017 11: 17 11:36 ‘AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

    

. pep fingerprint:
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

000192
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: ° Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:04 PM

To: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Ce: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA 0.SP ;

Subject: RE: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety

use Palantir software?

Thanks Guylaine,

FYI, GOC does not have any contracts with Palantir, and has not purchased any licenses for their software.

JP Levert

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:03 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Subject: Fw: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

ADM approved below.

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM

Conseillére principale en politiques ala SMA

Corporate Management Branch-Direction générale de la gestion ministérielle
Public Safety Canada-Sécurité publique Canada

613-990-2842

From: Weber, Caroline (PS/SP) <caroline.weber@canada.ca>

Sent: Tuesday, May 9, 2017 2:01 PM

To: Trembiay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Subject: RE: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Approved.

-Caroline

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:57 PM

To: Weber, Caroline (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Subject: Fw: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

000193
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM

Conseillére principale en politiques ala SMA

Corporate Management Branch-Direction générale de la gestion ministérielle

Public Safety Canada-Sécurité publique Canada ,

613-990-2842

From: Poirier, Christianne (PS/SP) <christianne.poirier@canada.ca>

Sent: Tuesday, May 9, 2017 1:56 PM

To: Smith-Chao, Shawn (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Ce: Krul, Thomas (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Gervais, Helene (PS/SP); Wong, Betty (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Paiantir software?

 

 

Agree. Guylaine, the response below is good.

Christianne

 

From: Smith-Chao, Shawn (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:49 PM

To: Poirier, Christianne (PS/SP)

Ce: Krul, Thomas (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Gervais, Helene (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP); Wong, Betty
(PS/SP)

Subject: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Christianne, Comms mistakenly directly sent this Media Request to us regarding use of Palantir Software. Guylaine
has resolved the matter such that we will no longer get directly tasked, but has asked we provide a response. if you
approve the response, it will be sent on to Caroline.

RESPONSE:
The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.”

Response was confirmed with Procurement.
Thank you,
Shawn Smith-Chao

Director, Client Services and Applications Division (Acting)
Public Safety Canada, Government of Canada

Email: shawn.smith-chao@canada.ca Tel: 613-355-2461

Directeur, Division du service a la clientéle et des applications (Intérimaire)
Sécurité publique Canada, Gouvernement du Canada
Courriel: shawn.smith-chao@canada.ca Tel: 613-355-2461

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) [mailto:jean-philippe.lJevert@canada.ca]

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:32 AM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Importance: High

000194
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

5.19(1)
Good morning,
Please advise as soon as possible as the reporter's deadline was yesterday.
The confirmation of receipt email doesn’t help me in this case. Please provide a contact ASAP.
Thanks,

yp Levert

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:32 PM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.
Please advise if this should be sent to another email address for IT.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

 

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
This might be for the agencies.

Thanks,
Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

From: |
Sent: Monday, May 08, 3017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Hi there—

000195
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

  
  

= =| CBC News

. @ebe.ca | SE
. pgp: https: key base.i io
. pgp fingerprint: |

. secure drop: https: i/securedrop. che.ca/

 
 
 

000196
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgue en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:52 PM

‘To: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon,
Cindy (PS/SP); PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Subject: RE: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use

Palantir software?

Thanks Guylaine,
JP Levert

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:48 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); PS.O CMB
ADMO / SGM BSMA 0.SP :

Subject: RE: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA 0.SP PS.CMBADMO-SGMBSMA.SP @canada.ca
Response is not approved and will be submitted asap.
Thanks

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM/

Conseillére principale des politiques a la SMA ©
Corporate Management Branch /

Direction générale de la gestion ministérielle

Public Safety Canada| Sécurité publique Canada
269 Laurier Ave. West/269, avenue Laurier Quest
14" Floor #14B-36/14e étage #14B-36

Ottawa, ON K1A OP8

Tel: (613) 990-2842

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:38 PM

To: Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Thank you Alexa,

Guylaine Tremblay mentioned that there is an email address we could use for future media request. Would it be
possible to share it with us?

Thanks,

JP Levert

000197
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

From: Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:35 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)

Subject: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hello Jean-Philippe,
Unfortunately Palantir is not an approved software at Public Safety and cannot be used.

Sorry,

Alexa Monsour —

Support Analyst, Infrastructure Operations / Analyste de soutien, infrastructure opérations
Client Services and Applications Division / division du service a la chentéle et des applications
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

269 Laurier Avenue West 14th floor, Ottawa, ON K1A 0P8 /

269 Laurier Avenue Ouest 14éme étage, Ottawa, ON K1A 0P8 /

Tel: (613) 991-9554 / Tél: (613) 991-9554

Fax; (613) 954-7944/ Télec: (613) 954-7944

Email alexa.monsour@canada.ca / Courriel: alexa. monsour@canada.ca

Web: www. publicsafety.ge.ca / www. SecuritePublique.ge.ca

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) [mailto:jean-philippe. levert@canada.ca]

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:32 AM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Importance: High

Good morning,
Please advise as soon as possible as the reporter’s deadline was yesterday.
The confirmation of receipt email doesn’t help me in this case. Please provide a contact ASAP.

Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:32 PM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

2
000198
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Good afternoon,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.
Please advise if this should be sent to another email address for IT.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? ,

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
This might be for the agencies.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +i Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

From: 2 [mailto: = acbe.ca]
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

Thanks,

, CBC News

  

| @cbc.ca |

000199
 

s.1 (1 ) . Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué eh vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Goldfinger, Marc (PS/SP)

From: Gordon, Robert
To: | Hatfield, Adam; Anderson, Windy; Bendelier, Kenneth
Subject: 2) Bell, RSVP ~ Palantir Session - Friday, March 9, 2012

 

Adam and Ken
| leave it to you to determine whether this session is of interest.
Bob

Robert W. (Bob) Gordon

Special Advisor, Cyber Security / Conseiller spécial, cybersécurité
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

340 Laurier Avenue West / 340 avenue Laurier Quest

Ottawa, Ontario K1A OP9 / Ottawa (Ontario) K1A OP8

613 949-7380 Fax/Téléc.: 613 990.3287

E-Mail / Courriel: Robert.Gordon

 

Sent: ‘March ‘05- 12 4: 00 PM
To: | | @bell.ca
Ce: :
Subject: RSVP - Palantir Session - Friday, March 9th

     

Palantir Session - 2 presentation of Palantir, a commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) software item used today as the
intelligence infrastructure for some of the most high-profile defense, intelligence, and law enforcement missions in the
U.S., Canada, and the UK.

~ When: Friday, March 9", 2012
Time: 10:30 am to 12:00 pm
Where: 160 Elgin Street, 14 Floor, MacKenzie Room

Please RSVP to my attention if you are able to attend.
|

Thank you.

Regards,

 

‘000002
Document Released Under the Access to

Inf@ncatinant RelexsediUirdeti thitiécans/totu

de lefaxsnatiod Antd Di¢intantdivutgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés & l'information

There has been widespread revulsion over the manner, shape, and form of President Bashar al-
Assad’s attempts to suppress the Syrian uprising. This has permeated all sections of society, from
individual actors, to human rights organisations up to the official pronouncements of Western
governments. Among potential foreign fighters this has been coupled potently with a sense of
personal obligation, responsibility, and guilt. Ali Kalantar was an 18-year-old student from
Coventry who travelled to Syria in March 2014 in order to join Islamic State. Having reposted a

- number of images of the violence and suffering being bestowed upon innocent civilians,“* a few
weeks before his departure, Kalantar posted a nasheed (Islamic song) to Facebook, which
revealed his growing sense of moral outrage at the situation in Syria.*? The nasheed’s lyrics state:

“Qh my Ummah listen carefully because everything looks vague,
Their bombs are thrown over us like poison
And we have no sincere or honest friend,
My son was shot in cold blood with no one to comfort or console me,
Oh my father they stabbed you just as one drinks a sip of water, :
Tuba (a tree of paradise) is your home where there's no misery
' Oh my mother stop crying, your religion is rising up,
I'm asking Allah to end this suffering and send down his soldiers (just as it)
rains.” .

“This is amazing,” Kalantar declared. Feeling a sense of obligation or duty towards the suffering
of other Muslims is an intellectual process that has taken root in some Muslim communities
through identification with an ‘ummah consciousness.’*! This argues that all Muslims are united
through a fraternity of the faithful, owing one another support, loyalty, and allegiance,
particularly in times of turmoil or oppression.

That narrative has resonated especially loudly in the Syrian context. Mehdi Hasan, a foreign
fighter who travelled from Portsmouth to join Islamic State, explained his reasons for going by
referencing the use of sexual violence against those held prisoner by President Assad’s forces.
“There is a prison in Halab [Aleppo] with 300 female prisoners who are raped daily,” he

_ explained. “Some are pregnant and many have given birth. There are many of these prisons
scattered over Syria. This is one small reason.””” By 2015, such pronouncements would be met
with incredulity given the Islamic State’s systematic use of rape and sexual slavery as a standard
practice and tool of oppression.”? , ;

“8 See Appendix; Figures 2, 3. , .
* Ali Al Farsi, Facebook profile, 19 February 2014. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by
ICSR. :

59 SYRIA - Very Powerful Emotional Nasheed,’ YouTube, 18 December 2012 ©

*” See Roy, O., Globalized Islam: The Search For A New Ummah, London: Hurst & Co, 2004; Kepel, G., Jihad: the
trail of political Islam, London: 1.B. Tauris & Co, 2006

? Abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by ICSR.

* Callimachi, R., ‘ISIS enshrines a theology of rape’, New York Times, August 13", 2015, accessed August 26",
2015, bttp://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/14/world/middleeast/isis-enshrines-a-theology-of-rape.htm!

13
, 000018

000020
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

. pgp: https://keybase.ios
. pgp fingerprint: oe
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

  
    

000200
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:04 PM

To: Martel, Alexandre (PS/SP)

Subject: _ RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir
software?

Thanks Alex!

JP Levert

 

From: Martel, Alexandre (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:49 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); PS.O GOC Support / Soutien COG O.SP; Boily, Mario (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Jean-Philippe,
GOC does NOT have any contracts with Palantir, and has not purchased any licenses for their software.

Alex.

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:35 PM

To: PS.O GOC Support / Soutien COG O.SP; Martel, Alexandre (PS/SP); Boily, Mario (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,
Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if the GOC has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? CCIRC has confirmed
it doesn’t and IT is presently preparing their input.

DEADLINE: 5 pm yesterday — Please advise as soon as possible
JOURNALIST: : a — CBC

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

000201
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1 ) . Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 
 

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec ies médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—
I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public

Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

 

 

Thanks,

 

 

   

| CBC News

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

000202
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:51 PM

To: Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon,
Cindy (PS/SP); Smith-Chao, Shawn (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use

Palantir software?

Thanks,
JP Levert

 

From: Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:47 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); Smith-Chao,
Shawn (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

My apologies, a formal email responses will be provided by the CMB ADMO.

Thank you

Alexa Monsour

Support Analyst, Infrastructure Operations / Analyste de soutien, infrastructure opérations
Client Services and Applications Division / division du service a la chentéle et des applications
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

269 Laurier Avenue West 14th floor, Ottawa, ON K1A OP8 /

269 Laurier Avenue Quest 14éme étage, Ottawa, ON K1A OP8 /

Tel: (613) 991-9554 / TE (613) 991-9554

Fax; (613) 954-7944/ Télec: (613) 954-7944

Email alexa.monsour@canada.ca / Courriel: alexa.monsour@canada.ca

Web: www.publicsafety.gc.ca / www. SecuritePublique ge. ca

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:38 PM

To: Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Thank you Alexa,

Guylaine Tremblay mentioned that there is an email address we could use for future media request. Would it be
possible to share it with us?

Thanks,

000203
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'acceés a l'information

JP Levert

 

From: Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:35 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: [IR243653] RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hello Jean-Philippe,
Unfortunately Palantir is not an approved software at Public Safety and cannot be used.

Sorry,

Alexa Monsour

Support Analyst, Infrastructure Operations / Analyste de soutien, infrastructure opérations
Chent Services and Applications Division / division du service a la chentéle et des applications
Public Safety Canada / Sécunté publique Canada

269 Laurier Avenue West 14th floor, Ottawa, ON KLA 0P8 /

269 Laurier Avenue Ouest 14éme étage, Ottawa, ON KLA 088 /

Tel: (613) 991-9554 / TEL (613) 991-9554

Fax; (613) 954-7944/ Télec: (613) 954-7944

Email: alexa.monsour@canada.ca / Courriel: alexa.monsour@canada.ca

Web: www.publicsafety.gc.ca / www. SecuritePublique.ge.ca

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) [mailto:jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca]

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:32 AM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Importance: High

Good morning,

Please advise as soon as possible as the reporter’s deadline was yesterday.

The confirmation of receipt email doesn’t help me in this case. Please provide a contact ASAP.
Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:32 PM
To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

000204
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP);. McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.
Please advise if this should be sent to another email address for IT.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

JOURNALIST: | -CBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
This might be for the agencies.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert’

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique

Canada Canada

 

From: | (mailto:
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

 

 

. Thanks

  

 

CBC News

. office:

 

000205
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1) , Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'aceés 4 l'information

 

000206
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:24 PM

To: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir
software?

Thanks Karine,
I feft her a voicemail a minute ago.
JP Levert

 

From: Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:06 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Allo, peux-tu appeler Guylaine Tremblay au 990-2842? Elle voudrait te parler au sujet de cet appel.

Karine

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:32 AM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP) ; .

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Importance: High

Good morning,

Please advise as soon as possible as the reporter’s deadline was yesterday.

The confirmation of receipt email doesn’t help me in this case. Please provide a contact ASAP.

Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:32 PM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,

- Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.
Please advise if this should be sent to another email address for IT.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

000207
5.19(4 Document Released Under the Access to
- ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

JOURNALIST:

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
This might be for the agencies.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F: 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety © Sécurité publique
Ganada Canada

   

From::  .. [mailto.
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

:  @cbc.ca]

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

  
 

, CBC News

000208
s$.15(1) - Subv
s.19(1)}

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'aceés 4 l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject:

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Wednesday, May 10, 2017 5:28 PM

Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Slack, Jessica (PS/SP); Berzel, Ruth
(PS/SP); Bruneau, Lise (PS/SP); Bruneau, Véronique (PS/SP); 'CBSA Media Relations’;
Communications Issues Management / Communications Gestion des Enjeux (PS/SP);
"CSC Media Relations’; 'Daoust, Normand (PS/SP’; ‘Derek Cefaloni'’; Howe2, Susan
(PS/SP); Jackson, Elyse (PS/SP); ‘julie gagnon’; Larrivee, Lesley (PS/SP); Leclair, Natalie
(PS/SP); MacNeil, Shauna (PS/SP); Magee, Heather (PS/SP); ‘Mark Prieur’; McAteer, Julie
(PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP); 'Nadine.Archambault@PBC-CLCC.GC.CA’; PS.F
Media Monitoring / surveillance des médias F.SP; Scott, Isabelle (PS/SP); Taillefer, Lucie
(PS/SP); Tomlinson, Jamie (PS/SP); Murdock, Lyndon (PS/SP); Miller, Kevin (PS/SP);
Morais, Josee (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Nichols, Megan (PS/SP); McNaughtan,
Jennifer (Ext.); Badger, Gillian (PS/SP); Baker3, Ryan (PS/SP); Danielle Nasraliah; Simplice,
Amanda (PS/SP); Gobeil, Renée (PS/SP); © Lachance, Nathaly
(PS/SP); Cibula, Colette (PS/SP); ‘christine.o nions@pco- bep. gc.ca’; Sayarh, Omar (PS/SP);
Wherrett, Jill (PS/SP); Patriquin, Kimberly (PS/SP); Clegg, Cindy (PS/SP); Vigeant, Helene
(PS/SP); Lau, Henry (PS/SP); Bachand, Stephane (PS/SP); O'Brien2, Judith (PS/SP);
COMDO / COMDO (PS/SP) ,

Daily Media Report / Rapport média quotidien (10/05/17)

 

For your information, we have received four new media requests on Wednesday, May 10", 2017. / Pour votre
information, nous avons regu quatre nouvelles demandes média en ce mercredi, 10 mai 2017.

NEW:

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

 

 

Global News

 
 

|| @globalnews.ca
10/05/2017 11:20 AM

 

Consulting
Flood Risk Maps

The reporter originally contacted Environment Canada.

I'm hoping you can provide copies of Flood Risk Maps for
each province participating in the Flood Damage Reduction
Program.

The specific maps I’m looking for are the following:
Flood Risk Maps

1. Large scale engineering maps usually at a scale of
1:2000 or 1:5000 are used to accurately delineate
the flood risk area. They are available for perusal or
purchase from local offices or provincial agencies.

2. Public information maps, with scales ranging from
1:5000 to 1:25000, are used to show the
approximate location of the flood risk area and
provide the public with information on the Program.
They are available to the public.

000209
Document Released Under the Access to

InReoourtiont Rdléfsed inddrdivelgodess tertu

ddrifptmation Act/Boruinéntdiviigué en vertu
de fa Loi sur l'accés a l'information

The de facto leader of the Portsmouth group, twenty-three year old Ifthekar Jaman, repeatedly
expressed his anger at the scale and urgency of the humanitarian crisis unfolding in the Levant.
Jaman also wrote about how “children were suffering” and of a “genocide” being conducted
against the Muslims of Syria.® “May Allah make it easy for all the oppressed Muslims,” he
wrote weeks before his departure. “May Allah bring a saviour soon.””* The group had grown
increasingly frustrated with local imams who they felt were both unable and unqualified to
adequately understand the situation in Syria. They took to the Internet to find alternative answers
and listen to speeches from the Saudi cleric Mohammed al-Arifi, among others. Again, Arifi’s
invectives are laden with highly emotive references to issues of honour, masculinity, and
personal duty. The pronouncements drive a sense of righteous obligation borne of moral outrage:

“No Muslim should accept to see a dear Muslim woman who was brought up on the
Quran and Hijab being grappled and forcefully taken to the bedroom of a brutal tyrant.
Which man can sleep or have his tears drop or feel a peace of mind while he hears of
such circumstances befalling our Brothers and Sisters? ns

Recruits ultimately begin to feel guilty about the relative comfort and security of their lives in
Western society when contrasted against the suffering of Muslims abroad. In July 2013 another
British fighter from Hounslow, Ismail Jabber, wrote a lengthy post on Facebook that focused on
the plight of the ummah. He wrote that he was in a “Bilad ash-Sham [land of Syria] state of

mind,” while chastising Muslims in the West for letting their material comforts distract them
from the suffering of the Syrian people.* In a subsequent message, Jabbar internalises this guilt
and argues that he feels like a “coward” for “sleeping cosy” while Muslim women are subject to .
sexual violence around the world.°? Although this was still quite soine time before Jabber finally
migrated to Syria, he did embark on a more activist phase at this point, raising funds for
humanitarian purposes.”

- Although the process of Jabbar’s radicalisation was principally driven by the conflict in Syria, .
. his sense of moral outrage and duty was not limited to events there. His horizons were global,
expanding to encompass any number of different scenarios where Muslims are believed to be
under attack. “I’m done with everyone and everything,” he wrote.” A similarly global outlook is
evident in the online expressions of Mehdi Hasan and Ifthekar Jaman, along with another British
fighter, Aseel Muthana, from Cardiff. All expressed their concern at Muslim suffering in Gaza, ‘
Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, Afghanistan, Kashmir, and Guantanamo Bay. “While your [sic] in bed,
reflect on those tortured in Guantanamo and OUR brothers and sisters in OUR lands being raped
and killed,” Muthana wrote.” That it considers itself a protective warden of the global ummah is

54 Ythekar Jaman Skype interview with Shiraz Maher, senior research fellow at ICSR (interview governed by”
research ethics application: REP (WSGY13/14-10)
° Tthekar Jaman (@ijaman08); Twitter, 19 February 2013. Full profile archived in full.
56 jy Lenker Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 22 February 2013. Full profile archived in full.
*” Arifi, M., ‘Syria we will fight with you,’ YouTube, posted March 20" 2012, last accessed on August 26", 2015 at
https S/W: youtube.com/watch?v=oiY WEAyF W3E
58 Waran Aki’ law, Facebook, July 2013. This profile is now offline but digitally archived in full by ICSR.
°° Waran Aki’law, Facebook, August 2™, 2013
© Waran Aki’law, Facebook, 2 August 2013 -
51 Ihid., (2013)
© Abu Faris (@abufarriss), Twitter, November 2013

14

000019

000021
5.19(1)

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Response

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Also, can you please provide a list of all communities in each
of the two zones: floodway and flood fringe.

* If it help[s, the Flood Risk Maps could be limited to the
Ottawa-Gatineau area.

Otherwise, if you can provide the full list of communities in
the floodway and flood fringe, as well as the exemptions in
Quebec that would be great.

 

Canadian Press

  

@thecanadianpress.com
10/05/2017 1:00 PM

 

Referred to HC
Canadian Cannabis Survey

I am seeking an update on the planned Canadian Cannabis
Survey mentioned in the April 2017 backgrounder on the
legalization of marijuana.

(*) When will the first survey take place?

(*) Who will administer it? e.g. Statistics Canada, another
agency?

(*) Do you have any details on how it will work?

 

The Canadian Press

 

 
 

@thecanadianpress.com
10/05/2017 1:25 PM

 

12/05/2017 5:00 PM
Completed
Preparation regarding expected increase in natural disasters

In 2008, and updated in 2014, NRCAN did a report Canada
in a Changing Climate.

I’m wondering what kind of follow up has been done since
2014 in terms of preparing for the expected increase in
floods and forest fires and droughts etc.

McKenna and Goodale both talked yesterday about the fact
we have to be expecting more of these extreme situations
because of climate change but what is the government doing
to prepare for such scenarios?

The Government is working with provinces and territories,
Indigenous Peoples, municipalities, private sector partners
and non-government organizations to develop a
comprehensive strategy to help Canada better
prevent/mitigate, predict, prepare for, respond to, and
recover from weather-related emergencies and natural
disasters. The current flooding situation will certainly be top
of mind as we come together to advance our common goal
of reducing the impact of disasters on Canadians from coast
to coast to coast. Strengthening the resilience of
communities to disasters continues to be a priority for

000210
s.19(1)

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

CONSULTING:

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

09/05/2017 1:10 PM

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Canada.

A key part of the Government's commitment to build safer
and more resilient communities is the National Disaster
Mitigation Program (NDMP). Of the $200 million under the
NDMP, approximately $183 million is available for NDMP
projects that will be cost-shared with the provinces and
territories (up to 50 per cent of eligible provincial projects
and up to 75 per cent of eligible projects in the territories).
Projects are selected for funding through a competitive,
merit-based process using objective and measurable criteria.

 

La Presse

 
  

lapresse.ca
10/05/2017 4:00 PM

 

Referred to CBSA
Programme de détention dans le domaine de |‘immigration

En aotit, le ministre Goodale a annoncé un investissement
pour améliorer le programme de détention dans le domaine
de l’immigration:

http: //www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreai/qoodale-
immiqration-laval-1.3721125

http://www. ledevoir.com/societe/justice/477839/la-
detention-des-immigrants-remise-en-question

Il a entre autres indiqué son intention de réduire l'utilisation
des prisons provinciales dans des dossiers d’immigration et
d‘éviter la détention de mineurs, autant que possible.
Yaimerais savoir quel progrés a été fait en la matiére.
Seriez-vous en mesure de me transmettre des statistiques
pertinentes svp, ou de m‘indiquer ou je pourrais trouver ces
données (évolution du nombre de mineurs en détention et
de détention dans des prisons provinciales dans des dossiers
d‘immigration)?

 

Freelance - CBC radio

 
   

12/05/2017 5:00 PM
Consulting

Canadians having traveled to Kurdistan to fight ISIS

 

My name is. : = and I'm a freelancer for CBC Radio.

 

I'm doing a radio documentary on Canadians who have traveled to
Kurdistan in Syria and Iraq to fight ISIS, with an emphasis on Syria.

Proof: http://www.cbc.ca/radio/docproject/meet-our-new-mentees-

1.3987975

I was just wondering if Public Safety Canada had any estimates on how

3
000211
-$.19(1)

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Response

(Follow-up) Questions

(Follow-up) Call Date

(Follow-up) Response

CLOSED:

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone

E-mail Address

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

many Canadians are currently in Kurdistan as part of the war against
ISIS. Even better would be if you know the divide between Syria and
Iraq.

I spoke to a graduate student at Laval University who is studying this
issue, and he estimates that there are about 40 Canadians (that's for
both Syria and Iraq). I was just wondering if I could get the
government's estimate of the number. I spoke to Global Affairs and they
directed me to you.

I'm not working on a tight deadline, but if I could get an estimate before
the end of the week that would be great.

 

CBC

  

office: cel

   

oo |||. @cbc.ca
08/05/2017 11:40 AM

    

08/05/2017 5:00 PM
Consulting
Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called
Palantir Technologies. Do you know If Public Safety has any
contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their
software?

The Palantir software is not used at Public, Safety, nor is it a
part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear
to list using Palantir software as part of their work.

1. https://www.linkedi m/inf
2. https://www. linkedin.com/in/carl-sharpe-b2658363,

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that
Palantir software is, in fact, used — but I want to be sure.

Apologies for not sending this along with my initial request. I
only came across it yesterday.

Second follow-up (2017-05-10 at 3:30 pm)
Understood. But why then would people who say they
worked at Public Safety list Palantir software under a
description of their job duties?

10/05/2017 10:35 AM

As mentioned in our previous response, Palantir software is
not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved
software list. We do not have at this time, nor have
previously had, a contract with Palantir.

 

99.1 FM CKXS | Your Music Variety

   

ckxsfm.com

 

000212
s.19(1)

Call Date
Status
Subject

Questions

Interview requested
Interview granted

Response

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline
Status

Subject

Questions

Response :

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

01/05/2017 3:30 PM
Completed

Emergency Preparedness Week Interview

Mynameis, & Iam with 99.1fm CKXS & Lam

looking at doing a recoarded interview for our news room
about Emergency Preparedness Week. I can be contacted

 

What is the importance of Emergency Preparedness
Week?

What are some emergencies that people in Chatham-Kent
should be prepared for?

What should be in the 72-hour emergency kit?

Yes
No

Due to the ongoing flood situation, a subject-matter expert
won't be available for an interview this week.

Please feel free to consult our web page on Emergency
Preparedness Week for more information.

 

Journal de Montréal

 

 
 

 

@quebecormedia.com
08/05/2017 10:45 AM

 

08/05/2017 5:00 PM
Completed
Facturation des services des FAC aux provinces et municipalités

1. Est-ce que les services des FAC (Forces Armées Canadienne)
seront facturés aux municipalités / provinces qui en ont fait la
demande pendant les inondations?

2. Est-ce au cabinet du ministre a déterminer les coiits?
3. Combien ces colits sont-ils caiculés?

Note:

The reporter asks the question in relation to this article from La
Presse in 2013 article regarding CAF recovering costs through the
provinces and municipalities directly:

http://www. lapresse.ca/actualites/national/201301/10/01-
4609989-larmee-veut-facturer-son-aide.php

The reporter has originally contacted DND who answered his
questions with the following:

Nous avons conscience qu'il y aura des frais associés a l'aide
fournie par les FAC au Québec et le gouvernement déterminera le
mécanisme le plus approprié pour supporter ces cofits en temps
utile. Pour le moment, nous concentrons notre attention sur la
collaboration avec les provinces afin d'établir les capacités des
FAC qui sont les plus nécessaires afin d'assurer la sécurité des
Canadiens.

Comme I’a mentionné la Défense nationale, notre priorité pour le
moment est de donner aux Canadiens qui se trouvent dans les
régions sinistrées le soutien, I’aide et les outils dont ils ont besoin

000213
s.19(1)

(Follow-up) Questions

(Follow-up) Call Date

(Foliow-up) Response

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Deadline .

Status

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

pour atténuer les effets des inondations et se protéger.

I) serait prématuré de spéculer sur les codits associés 4 la
situation entourant les inondations actuelies au Québec et en
Ontario, ou sur le mécanisme exact qui sera employé pour
couvrir ces cotits.

Est-ce qu'une facture avait été envoyée au Nouveau-Brunswick
pour le déploiement des FAC pendant le vergias cet hiver (2017)
?

The reporter also contacted DND with the following: This
particular reporter came back to us and would like to know if the
CAF has ever “sent a bill to the provinces” since 2013 for Op
LENTUS deployments and if so, how many times? He‘s asking in
the context of this article:

’ http://www. lapresse.ca/actualites/national/201301/10/01-

4609989-larmee-veut-facturer-son-aide.php

I checked with our folks here, and I'm told that DND/CAF
wouldn’t be able to answer this. Apparently, after each Op
LENTUS mission, the CAF compiles all of the “receipts” and sends
them up the chain to the Minister’s Office who then coordinates
with Public Safety (as the overall lead). At that point, it’s decided
who foots the bill.

Would you guys be in a position to answer this request?
08/05/2017 3:30 PM

Le premier ministre a déclaré que lorsque les Canadiens font face
a des désastres naturels ou a d’autres situations graves, ils se
serrent les coudes, parce que c’est dans leur nature. II a ajouté
que le Québec et |‘Ontario ont demandé une aide militaire et que
le gouvernement fédéral était heureux de leur apporter et que,
bien entendu, il assumera tous les colts liés a l’aide fournie au
Québec et a |‘Ontario dans le cadre de ces inondations. I! est
également important de souligner qu’il n’y a pas d’exempies
récents oll le gouvernement du Canada a demandé a une
province de payer I’aide qu’il a apportée au cours d’un désastre
naturel, y compris pour les mesures d’intervention lors de verglas
au Nouveau-Brunswick cet hiver.

Il serait prématuré de spéculer sur les codits associés a la
situation entourant les inondations actuelles au Québec et en
Ontario, ou sur le mécanisme exact qui sera employé pour
couvrir ces co(its.

Notre priorité pour le moment est de donner aux Canadiens qui
se trouvent dans les régions touchées le soutien, l’aide et les
outils dont ils ont besoin pour atténuer les effets des inondations
et protéger les collectivités.

PVI, une résumé des événements est disponible a:

https://www.securitepublique.gc.ca/cnt/nws/bkgrndrs/20170508-
fr.aspx

 

Le Devoir

 
   

| @ledevoir.cam

 

08/05/2017 12:30 PM
08/05/2017 5:00 PM
Completed

000214
s.19(1)

Subject

Questions

Response

(Follow-up) Questions

(Follow-up) Cail Date

(Follow-up) Response

Reporter

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Inondations et facture de l'armée

Je cherche 4 savoir si les frais associés par |‘aide fournie par les
FAC en réponse aux inondations au Québec seront facturés.
Défense nationale m‘a référé chez vous

Est-ce que le coat différentiel («incremental cost») de l’assistance
de la Défense nationale pour les inondations au Québec sera
facturé? Si oui, la facture sera acheminée a qui? gouvernement
provincial? municipal?

Et a-t-on un estimé du cofit par jour du déploiement actuel de
1200 soldats en réponse aux inondations?

Par ailleurs, pouvez-vous m/‘indiquer le dernier décompte des
soldats déployés par région?

Notre priorité pour le moment est de donner aux Canadiens qui
se trouvent dans les régions sinistrées le soutien, !’aide et les
outils dont ils ont besoin pour atténuer les effets des inondations
et se protéger.

Il serait prématuré de spéculer sur les cofits associés a la
situation entourant les inondations actuelies au Québec et en
Ontario, ou sur le mécanisme exact qui sera employé pour
couvrir ces colits.

De plus, tel que mentionné par le Ministre Sajjan de la Défense et
des Forces armées canadiennes, 1650 soldats sont actuellement
déployés au Québec.

Pourriez-vous m’‘expliquer en background le changement de
politique qui a été adopté en 2012 et qui fait en sorte que I‘armée
facture désormais son assistance? J‘essaie juste de comprendre
le pourquoi du changement, et & combien de reprises depuis ce
changement de politique la Défense a-t-elle été déployée au
Canada pour aider 4 une crise naturelle comme ces inondations.

08/05/2017 4:30 PM

Nous sommes désolé pour le délais de notre réponse.

Le premier ministre a déclaré que lorsque les Canadiens font face
a des désastres naturels ou a d’autres situations graves, ils se
serrent les coudes, parce que c’est dans Jeur nature. Il a ajouté
que le Québec et l’Ontario ont demandé une aide militaire et que
le gouvernement fédéral était heureux de leur apporter et que,
bien entendu, il assumera tous les coiits liés a l’aide fournie au
Québec et a l’Ontario dans le cadre de ces inondations. Ii est
également important de souligner qu’il n‘y a pas d’exemples
récents ol le gouvernement du Canada a demandé a une
province de payer l‘aide qu’il a apportée au cours d’un désastre
naturel,

Il serait prématuré de spéculer sur les cotits associés a la
situation entourant les inondations actuelles au Québec et en
Ontario, ou sur le mécanisme exact qui sera employé pour
couvrir ces codits.

Notre priorité pour le moment est de donner aux Canadiens qui

se trouvent dans les régions touchées le soutien, l’aide et les
outils dont ils ont besoin pour atténuer les effets des inondations
et protéger les collectivités.

PVI, une résumé des événements est disponible a:

https://www.securitepublique.gc.ca/cnt/nws/bkgrndrs/20170508-
fr.aspx

 

000215
s.19(1)

Media Outlet

Telephone

 

Call Date

 

Status
Subject

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

Radio-Canada Manitoba

 

08/05/2017 5:00 PM

Reporter abandoned request

Semaine sur la ‘sécurité publique

 

 

Questions

Interview requested

Interview granted

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. = 277 de Radio-Canada Manitoba voudrait faire
une “entrevue avec un expert dans le cadre de la semaine
sur la sécurité publique.

Yes

No

  

   

 

 

 

I've been asked to get clarity on this cost sharing stuff with
regards to the flood and natural disasters writ large. DND
tells me they basically send their incremental! costs to Public
Safety on a cost-recovery basis, but I don’t know what
Public Safety does with them. Hoping you could walk me

 

Reporter
Media Outlet ~ Canadian Press
Telephone _ a :
Call Date a 09/05/2017 12:45 AM
Status ~ Completed
Subject - Flooding Costs
Questions ~

through it.
Response —

MO has already provided the following (looking for more
information):

This is a unique situation, a natural disaster and the
government is here to support Canadians in this time of
need,

As the Prime Minister said, the federal government will cover
the costs of deploying the military, like in Quebec, for
example, where they requested this assistance.

These are difficult times for thousands of citizens, who have
shown that helping each other is a core part of our
values. And we are here to help.

It is important to note, also, that there are no recent
examples of the Government of Canada charging a Province
for providing assistance during a natural disaster, including
for the response efforts for the Fort McMurray wildfires. Our
priority at this time remains focused on providing Canadians
in distressed regions with the support, aid and tools they
need to mitigate the flooding and keep communities safe.

PS MR added the following:

With regards to the costs of the current flooding in Eastern
Canada, The Prime Minister has stated, “when Canadians are
facing natural disasters or serious issues, we pull together.
That's who we are. Quebec and Ontario asked for military
support and we're happy to give it and of course the federal
government will assume all costs related to support for
Quebec and Ontario in these floods.

It would be premature, however, to speculate on the costs
associated with the current flooding situation in Quebec and

000216
s.19(1)

Reporter

Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Ontario, or the exact mechanism by which those costs will
be covered.

I would, however, draw your attention to the following
webpage that has background information about the
Disaster Financial Assistance Arrangements (DFAA)

https://www.publicsafety.gqc.ca/ent/mrgnc-mngmnt/revr-

dsstrs/dsstr-fnnel-ssstne-rrngmnts/index-en.aspx

Our priority at this time is focused on providing Canadians in
distressed regions with the support, aid and tools they need
to mitigate the flooding and keep communities safe.

 

 

Radio-Canada - Correspondante parlementaire

 

09/05/2017 11:35 AM

Referred to MO

Stratégie nationale d’atténuation des catastrophes du
Canada

Est-ce que c'est la plus récente stratégie? :

https://www.securitepublique.gc.ca/cnt/rsrcs/pblictns/mtgtn-
strtgy/index-fr.aspx

Et M. Goodale a parlé d'une réunion avec les provinces et
territoires sur le sujet le mois prochain. Est-ce que tu as
plus d'information la-dessus?

Received on May 9, 2017 at 4:05 pm:

J'ai laissé un message sur votre boite vocale.

J'aimerais savoir si un suivi a été fait pour ces trois
recommandations de la commissaire a l'environnement dans
son rapport du printemps 2016.

Je m'intéresse particuligrement aux lignes directrices pour la
cartographie des plaines inondables. Ont-elles été émises?
Par ailleurs, a-t-on réexaminé les programmes d'atténuation
depuis la parution du rapport?

2.40Recommandation — Sécurité publique Canada, de
concert avec les parties prenantes clés, devrait élaborer des
lignes directrices et des normes pour la cartographie des
plaines inondables et encourager leur application uniforme
dans toutes les provinces et dans tous les territoires.

2.84Recommandation — Sécurité publique Canada, en
collaboration avec d’autres ministéres, devrait examiner les
programmes fédéraux de financement des projets
d’atténuation et déterminer les changements qui pourraient
y &tre apportés de facon 4 encourager les provinces et les
territoires a investir dans ce type de projets. Ces
programmes devraient soutenir a la fois les projets
structuraux 4 grande et 4 petite échelle et continuer a
appuyer les projets non structuraux.

2.53Recommandation — De concert avec les partenaires
fédéraux clés, Sécurité publique Canada devrait mener des
consultations auprés des décideurs afin de mieux
comprendre I‘information dont ils ont besoin pour appuyer
leurs efforts de réduction des risques de catastrophes,

y compris ceux en matiére d’atténuation des effets du temps
violent. ,

000217
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Reporter

 

Media Outlet La Presse

 

Telephone

Call Date . 09/05/2017 1:00 PM

Status Completed

Subject 7 : , . Brigade de volontaires pour la protection civile

Questions La journaliste voudrait savoir si le gouvernement songe &
mettre sur pied une brigade de volontaires pour
la protection civile durant des situations d'urgence.

Response , - La gestion des urgences et la recherche et sauvetage au
Canada sont une responsabilité conjointe qui compte sur la
coopération et la communication continues entre tous les
ordres de gouvernement et la participation de bénévoles.

Sécurité publique Canada travaille de concert avec les
provinces, les territoires et les organisations non
gouvernementales sur la facon de mieux appuyer le travail
des volontaires canadiens, et de tirer profit de ce potentiel
afin de favoriser une intervention et un rétablissement
rapides a la suite de catastrophes.

Sécurité publique Canada collabore avec un réseau
d‘institutions du gouvernement fédéral, d‘organisations
provinciales et territoriales de gestion des urgences, de
premiers intervenants et d’organisations de bénévoles, et
d’autres intervenants et collectivités, afin de soutenir une
approche a l’échelle de la société a l’égard de la gestion des
urgences dans quatre domaines connexes : la prévention et
Vatténuation, ja protection civile, Iintervention en cas
d’urgence et le rétablissement a la suite de catastrophes.

Il est également important de mentionner qu’un grand
hombre de volcntaires ont aidé les autorités locales dans
leur intervention pendant les inondations au Québec et en
Ontario. ,

Reporter

 

Media Outlet CBC

Telephone

 

E-mail Address

Call Date : 08/05/2017 11:40 AM

Deadline SO "98/05/2017 5:00 PM

Status : ~ ~ Daily Report (Completed)

Subject : Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Questions : I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called

Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public Safety has any
contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their
software?

Response The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a
part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

(Follow-up) Questions There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear
to list using Palantir software as part of their work.

  

1. https://www. linkedin.com/in/

2. https://www. linkedin.com/in/carl-sharpe-b2658363/

10
000218
s.19(1)

(Follow-up) Call Date

(Follow-up) Response

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

Reporter
Media Outlet
Telephone
E-mail Address
Call Date
Status

Subject

Questions

Response

11

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that
Palantir software is, in fact, used — but I want to be sure.

Apologies for not sending this along with my initial request. I
only came across it yesterday.

Second follow-up (2017-05-10 at 3:30 pm)
Understood. But why then would people who say they
worked at Public Safety list Palantir software under a
description of their job duties?

10/05/2017 10:35 AM

As mentioned in our previous response, Palantir software is
not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved
software list. We do not have at this time, nor have
previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Response to second follow-up: As previously mentioned,
Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part
of our approved software list. We do not have at this time,
nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

 

CBC Montreal

 

 

09/05/2017 1:00 PM

Referred to EC
General pattern on flooding in Quebec

The reporter searched the Canadian Disaster Database for
flooding in Quebec. He wants to know if floods in Quebec are
getting more frequent and severe. Is there a general
pattern?

 

Le Devoir

   

@ledevoir.com
09/05/2017 3:45 PM

 

Completed
Estimation des cotits des inondations au Québec

Le journaliste veut savoir si le gouvernement fédéral a une
idée des cofits engendrés par les inondations au Québec.

Le premier ministre a déclaré que lorsque les Canadiens font
face a des désastres naturels ou a d’autres situations
graves, ils se serrent les coudes, parce que c’est dans leur
nature. Il a ajouté que le Québec et I’Ontario ont demandé
une aide militaire et que le gouvernement fédéral était
heureux de jeur apporter et que, bien entendu, il assumera
tous les covts liés a l'aide fournie au Québec et a l'Ontario
dans le cadre de ces inondations.

Il serait prématuré de spéculer sur l’estimation des cots
associés a la situation entourant les inondations actuelles au
Québec et en Ontario, ou sur le mécanisme exact qui sera

000219
Document Released Under the Access to

InBomatieonVtdbletesd Undécingladcess vertu

ddrfotmiation Act Declinénbastingué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'aceés 4 information

practical as well as theological; representing itself as a state with the ability to project power
around the world (through its proxies) is a crucial aspect of justifying its legitimacy.”

Inadequacy of Non-Violent Activism

Feelings of anger and outrage regarding the humanitarian crisis in Syria have been fuelled by the -
supposed indifference of the international community.™ This can be thought of as ‘radicalisation
by omission,’ where the expectation of international assistance has failed to materialise.™

Ifthekar Jaman was dismayed by what he considered a derogation of duty from Muslim rulers —
towards the Muslims of Syria. “Why haven’t the Saudi government sent their armies to support
the Syrians?” he asked. “Why are the Saudi government quietly on the side while the ummah is
suffering?”® Their apparent indifference towards the Syrians led him to conclude, “the Saudi
government are the worst examples.”*

In this case individual agents feel a greater sense of personal responsibility and obligation to take
matters into their own hands, engaging in a form of vigilante militarism. “Sorry to say, but
sending cereal does not stop this brutality,” wrote Mehdi Hasan shortly after arriving in Syria.
“A bullet to the head is far more effective.” Ifthekar Jaman was more sober in his assessment,
recognising the virtue of charity — albeit in limited form. “Ya ikhwaani [oh brothers], give
charity as much as you can,” he urged his twitter followers. “But don’t think you’ve done your
duty. Charity doesn’t prevent a tank, you do.”

The corollary is clear - while Muslims can give to charity, they should not consider this as
sufficient to discharge their obligations towards the Syrian people. Their duties go further
because the current situation is unbearable and the status quo can neither reverse nor adequately
address the humanitarian suffering. Non-violent activism is therefore out-dated and needs to be
replaced with a more direct form of confrontation.

Need for Effective Action

Primed with sufficient outrage but disillusioned with the prevailing political climate, radicalised
individuals conclude that the only solution available to them is to become fighters. This not only
makes a tangible and practical change to the problem, as they perceive it, but is also a decision

6 Winter, C., ‘How the Islamic State makes sure you pay attention to it’, War on the Rocks, February 12", 2015,
accessed August 26", 2015, http://warontherocks.com/2015/02/how-the-islamic-state-makes-sure-you-pay-attention-
to-it/ . .
& «The World’s pitiful response to Syria’s refugee crisis’, Amnesty International, December 5“, 2014, last accessed
August 26", 2015 https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/news/2014/ 12/world-s-pitiful-response-syria-s-refugee-crisis/
© The opposite might be thought of as ‘radicalisation by commission,’ that is, for example, radicalisation caused by
our participation in the Iraq war.
. Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 6 February 2013

Ibid. .
8 Abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014
® Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 17 July 2013; See Appendix; Figure 4

oe )
000020

000022
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information-

employé pour couvrir ces coiits.

Notre priorité pour le moment est de donner aux Canadiens
qui se trouvent dans les régions touchées le soutien, l’aide
et les outils dont ils ont besoin pour atténuer les effets des
inondations et protéger les collectivités.

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

a +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

12
000220
194 Document Released Under the Access to
Ss. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

  

From: | | @cbc.ca>

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 5:20 PM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Is it possible that Public Safety employees were entering data into Palantir software that was
purchased/operated/approved for use by another government department? I'm not trying to be difficult here, but
I really can't square why multiple people from the same government department would claim to have used this
software as part of their Public Safety duties.

On Wed, May 10, 2017 at 5:16 PM, Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

Hi again,

As previously mentioned, Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We
do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Regards,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Spokesperson / Porte-parole

Media Relations / Relations avec les médias
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

613-991-0657

media@ps-sp.gc.ca

   

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 3:26 PM

000221
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Understood. But why then would people who say they worked at Public Safety list Palantir software under a
description of their job duties?

On Wed, May 10, 2017 at 3:16 PM Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

 

 

As mentioned in our previous response, Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved
software list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Regards,

JP Levert

i [mailto:) = @chbc.ca]
Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 10:32 AM

 

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

_ Hi Jean-Philippe—

Many thanks for looking into this for me. I do have a follow-up I'm hoping you can look into for me.

‘ There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear to list using Palantir software as part of their work.

1. https://www.linkedin.com/in/!

 

000222
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

2. https://www.linkedin.com/in/carl-sharpe-b2658363/

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that Palantir software is, in fact, used — but I want to be
sure.

Apologies for not sending this along with my initial request. I only came across it yesterday.

Thanks again,

 

On Tue, May 9, 2017 at 3:22 PM, Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

 

. The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not have at this

 

time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Kind regards,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Spokesperson / Porte-parole

Media Relations / Relations avec les médias
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

613-991-0657

media@ps-sp.gc.ca

000223
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

    

From: 2 [mailto:
Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:27 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Hello again! Just checking in. Can I expect to receive any comment on this?

 

On Mon, May 8, 2017 at 11:36 AM, - _@cbe.ca> wrote:

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

 

. office: |

 

. cell:
. twitter: @ |

email: | |

  

. pgp fingerprint:

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

000224
s.19(1)

 

 

 

. office:

. cell:

   

. twitter: @
. email:
. pep: https://keybase.iog

. pgp fingerprint:

 

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

CBC News

. office:

. cell: ql

 

_ twitter: @:

 

. email:

  

. pgp fingerprint:

 

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

 

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

000225
   
  
 
 
   

_ Document Released Under.the Access to
$.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

- . CBC News

. pgp: https://keybase.io/ _
. pgp fingerprint: :

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

. pgp: https://keybas
. pgp fingerprint: |
. secure drop: https://securedrop.chc.ca/

 

 

000226
Document Released Under the Access to

Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
$.19(1) ion Act / Docum !

de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP) |

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: : Wednesday, May 10, 2017 4:32 PM

To: "Media CSEC-CSTC’

Subject: FW: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good Afternoon
As discussed, here is the exchange to date with the reporter.

Thanks
-Andrew

Andrew Gowing

Senior Advisor & Spokesperson | Conseilier principal et porte-parole
Communications Directorate | Direction générale des communications
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Telephone | Téléphone : (613) 991-1689

Blackberry : (613) 808-5414

Email | Courriel : Andrew.Gowing@Canada.ca

From: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday May 10, 2017 3:16 PM

To:
Subject: RE: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

   
 

Hi

 

As mentioned in our previous response, Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved
software list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Regards,

JP Levert

 

From:
Sent: Wesrosiae Mae 10, 2017 10:32 AM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Jean-Philippe—
Many thanks for looking into this for me. I do have a follow-up I'm hoping you can look into for me.
There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear to list using Palantir software as part of their work.

1. https:/Awww.linkedin.com/iny L
2. https://www.linkedin.com/in/c: sharpe-b2658363/

 

000227
s 19(1) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that Palantir software is, in fact, used — but I want to be
sure.

Apologies for not sending this along with my initial request. I only came across it yesterday.

. Thanks again,

 

On Tue, May 9, 2017 at 3:22 PM, Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

 

The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Kind regards,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Spokesperson / Porte-parole

Media Relations / Relations avec les médias
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

613-991-0657

media@ps-sp.gc.ca

   

From: | — (mailto: | @cbc.ca]
Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:27 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Hello again! Just checking in. Can I expect to receive any comment on this?

 

On Mon, May 8, 2017 at 11:36 AM. s @cbe.ca> wrote:

 

000228
s.1 9(1 ) : Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this. ,

Thanks,

 

 

. pgp: https://keybase.io/ 7

 

 

. pep fingerprint:

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

 

000229
Document Released Under the Access to

Inbocuntiont Relddied iuinder tha vueress toertu

dénfarnation Fot¢é @ocuiiaéatidiviitgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

believed to be invested with unparalleled virtues and divine rewards.”° Quite often these
decisions to join militant groups are also bound up with notions of masculinity and valour.’' As
Deeyah Khan notes, modern media tends to provide a message for men of heroism that is defined
through “control, independence and the ability to commit violence, from superheroes to crime
dramas.” An interplay occurs between respect and fear — those that feel disrespected want to be
feared. This is summed up in a tweet from Ali Kalantar: - “running away from jihad will not save
you from death. You can die as a coward or you can die as a martyr.””? Ismail Jabber expressed
similar sentiments, writing, “the urnmah i is bleeding and now its time to findbout [sic] who are
the lions, cats and snakes [sic].””

For Mehdi Hasan, it no longer made sense to remain in the United Kingdom. He felt obligated to
be in Syria and had come to regard Britain as a country where it was impermissible for Muslims
to live permanently. 75 Instead, his loyalty was now owed to the “micro Caliphates” established
all over the world.’* His decision to migrate to Syria was also mixed with a degree of fatalism, |
stemming from normative Islamic belief that an individual’s lifespan is predestined and fixed.’
As Kalantar argued, “running away from jihad will not save you from death.” As the moment is
already fixed, a true believer should migrate to the battlefields not only to demonstrate their
faith, but to also relieve the suffering of the ummah. Mehdi Hasan explained this clearly in a
Facebook post arguing, “I’m gonna do my best to help ppl [sic], my death is written. Ifthekar
fought his first battle after 5 months in jihad and got shadah {martyrdom] whilst an azeri bro
fought i in jihad for 15 years and he got shadah in the same battle.”

Ifthekar Jaman also wrote extensively on how the pains of inaction involved missing out on the
supposed rewards of a holy warrior and martyr. “The gates of jannah [paradise] will be so
amazing that you would stand in awe for years admiring its beauty,” he wrote. “This is just the
gates. Now imagine jannah, with the small imagination we have been given, waterfalls from high
skies, valleys with the most beautiful plants, mountains.””? Jaman frequently reminded his
readers about the virtuous of jihad, martyrdom, and the nirvana of paradise. Ismail Jabber went
further by expressing his guilt at failing to act, feeling that the longer he avoided jihad, the more
jahil (or ignorant) he was becoming. His use of the term jahil is particularly relevant here
because it refers to the idolatrous and polytheistic state of pre-Islamic Arabia, generally held by
Muslims to have been an era of spiritual darkness and moral decay. “I’ve seen light and [yet
become jahil,” Jabber wrote. “But this time I’m going to the light even if it has to burn me.”
is clear that Jabber was wrestling with the various phases of his radicalisation — the sense of duty,

doa:

See Appendix; Figure 5

7! See Appendix; Figure 6

7 enhaas D., ‘Jihad Masculinity’, Huffington Post Blog, July 10° 2015, last accessed August 26" 2015, at
-/farwrw huttin co.uk/deeyah-khan/jihad-deeyah-khan_b_7770578.html

2 Ali Kalanar (RandomGuy WithA Suit/@AliAlfarsiii), Twitter, 29 October 2014
™ Waran Aki’law, Facebook, 16 November 2013
75 Mehdi Hasan (@AbuDujana), Twitter, 25 August 2013

7 Thid., 22 November 2012
7? See Watt, W., ‘Free Will and Predestination in Early Islam’, The Muslim World, Vol. 36, No. 2, 1946, pp. 124-

152. Also see Appendix; Figure 7

78 abu Dujana, Facebook post, 7 January 2014

79 Ifthekar Jaman (@ijaman08), Twitter, 27 January 2013
% Waran Aki’law, Facebook, 2 August 2013

16
000021

000023
s.19(1)

 

 

- pgp: https://keybase.io/

. pgp fingerprint: -

 

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

   
 

CBC News

-pgp fingerprint,
. Secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.c:

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

000230
: Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1) : Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 4:24 PM

To: Tomlinson, Jamie (PS/SP)

Ce: MacLean, Megan (PS/SP); Wilson, Ashleigh (PS/SP); Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); Martel,
Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: For Jamie's Approval: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Jamie

Please see below an exchange between our team and the CBC on a call you had approved yesterday. The CBC journalist
has come across Linkedin profiles that seem to suggest that our information is incorrect. We confirmed twice with CMB
that we do not have a contract with this company and reiterated our same response to the journalist. He is now asking
for comment on the accounts. Our suggested response is below.

DEADLINE: 4:45 PM
JOURNALIST: |
QUESTIONS: !'m writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Why then would people who say they
worked at Public Safety list Palantir software under a description of their job duties?

RESPONSE: Public Safety Canada does not comment or speculate on the content or accuracy of private social media
accounts. Again, Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not
have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

 

| can provide additional context should you have any questions.

Thanks
-Andrew

Andrew Gowing

Senior Advisor & Spokesperson | Conseiller principal et porte-parole
Communications Directorate | Direction générale des communications
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Telephone | Téléphone : (613) 991-1689

Blackberry : (613) 808-5414

Email | Courriel : Andrew.Gowing@Canada.ca

   
 
 

 

From: /
Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 3:26 PM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

__ @cbc.ca]

Understood. But why then would people who say they worked at Public Safety list Palantir software under a
description of their job duties?

On Wed, May 10, 2017 at 3:16 PM Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

000231
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) . . Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

Hie

 

As mentioned in our previous response, Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved
software list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Regards,

JP Levert

    
 

 

| [mailto:

From:
Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 10:32 AM

 

 

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Jean-Philippe—
Many thanks for looking into this for me. I do have a follow-up I'm hoping you can look into for me.

There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear to list using Palantir software as part of their work.

1. hy s://www.linkedin.com/in =

2. https://www.linkedin.com/in/carl-sharpe-b2658363/

 

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that Palantir software is, in fact, used — but I want to be
sure.

_ Apologies for not sending this along with my initial request. I only came across it yesterday.

000232
5.1911 Document Released Under the Access to
. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Thanks again,

 

On Tue, May 9, 2017 at 3:22 PM, Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

 

The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Kind regards,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Spokesperson / Porte-parole

Media Relations / Relations avec les médias
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada
613-991-0657 © |

media@ps-sp.gc.ca

- \

 

 
 

 
 

From :
Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:27 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

= @cbe.ca]

Hello again! Just checking in. Can I expect to receive any comment on this?

 

On Mon, May 8, 2017 at 11:36 AM, @cbc.ca> wrote:

 

000233
1911 Document Released Under the Access to
Ss. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

 

, CBC News

. office:

 

 

cell:

  
 
 
 

. twitter: @,
. email:

- pgp: https://keybase.io/,

 

. pgp fingerprint:

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

 

|, CBC News

  

. office:

 

. cell: |

000234
Document Released Under the Access to
. , Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
5.19(1) ion Act / Docum !
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

. twitter: @

   

. email:

 

_ @chbe.ca |

 

- pgp: https://keybase.io/:

 

 

. pgp fingerprint:

, secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

 

 

. Office:

 

. cell:

 

. twitter: @

 

 
 
 

. email:

 

. pgp: https://keybase.io/ |_|

 

- pgp fingerprint: |

 

. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbc.ca/

 
  
 
 
 

. pgp: https://Keybase.1o/
. pep fingerprint: |
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.

 

000235
5.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 3:25 PM

To: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP); PS.C CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Follow-up: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use

Palantir software?

Merci Guylaine!
JP Levert

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 2:32 PM

Ta: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Ce: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Follow-up: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Please see ADM approved response.

 

We can confirm that __ is nota Public Safety Canada employee.

We can confirm that PSC does not have and has not previously had a contract with Palantir.

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM/
Conseillére principale des politiques a la SMA
Corporate Management Branch /

Direction générale de ta gestion ministérielle
Public Safety Canada] Sécurité publique Canada
269 Laurier Ave. West/269, avenue Laurier Ouest
14" Floor #14B-36/14e étage #14B-36

Ottawa, ON K1iA OP8

Tel: (613) 990-2842

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 11:09 AM

To: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP); PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA 0.SP

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: Follow-up: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Guylaine,
Please see below, a follow-up request from M. Braga on Palantir.

Can you please advise:
#1:Does____ || | (second linkedin link) work at Public Safety Canada? According to his Linkedin account, he
does and he uses Palantir software.

#2: Are we 100% sure that PSC has never had a contract with Palantir?

 
 

000236
1914 Document Released Under the Access to
Ss. ( ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Please advise.

DEADLINE: n/a

' JOURNALIST:

 

s~ CBC

FOLLOW-UP QUESTION: There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear to list using Palantir software as
part of their work.

1. https://www.linkedin.com/inf
2. httos://www.linkedin.com/in/carl-sharpe-b2658363/

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that Palantir software is, in fact, used — but | want to be sure.

 

 

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
_ Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:03 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Subject: Fw: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

ADM approved below.

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM

Conseillére principale en politiques ala SMA

Corporate Management Branch-Direction générale de la gestion ministérielle
Public Safety Canada-Sécurité publique Canada

613-990-2842

From: Weber, Caroline (PS/SP) <caroline.weber@canada.ca>

Sent: Tuesday, May 9, 2017 2:01 PM

To: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA 0.SP

Subject: RE: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Approved.
-Caroline

000237
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:57 PM

To: Weber, Caroline (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Subject: Fw: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM

Conseillére principale en politiques a la SMA

Corporate Management Branch-Direction générale de la gestion ministérielle
Public Safety Canada-Sécurité publique Canada

613-990-2842

From: Poirier, Christianne (PS/SP) <christianne.poirier@canada.ca>

Sent: Tuesday, May 9, 2017 1:56 PM

To: Smith-Chao, Shawn (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Cc: Krul, Thomas (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Gervais, Helene (PS/SP); Wong, Betty (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Agree. Guylaine, the response below is good.

Christianne

 

From: Smith-Chao, Shawn (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:49 PM

To: Poirier, Christianne (PS/SP)

Cc: Krul, Thomas (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Gervais, Helene (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP); Wong, Betty
(PS/SP)

Subject: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Christianne, Comms mistakenly directly sent this Media Request to us regarding use of Palantir Software. Guylaine
has resolved the matter such that we will no longer get directly tasked, but has asked we provide a response. !f you
approve the response, it will be sent on to Caroline.

RESPONSE:

The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a parto of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.”

Response was confirmed with Procurement.

Thank you,

Shawn Smith-Chao

Director, Client Services and Applications Division (Acting)

Public Safety Canada, Government of Canada

Email: shawn.smith-chao@canada.ca Tel: 613-355-2461

Directeur, Division du service a Ia clientéle et des applications (Intérimaire)
Sécurité publique Canada, Gouvernement du Canada

000238
s 19(1) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Courriel: shawn.smith-chao@canada.ca Tel: 613-355-2461

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) [mailto:jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca]

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:32 AM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Importance: High

Good morning,

Please advise as soon as possible as the reporter’s deadline was yesterday.

The confirmation of receipt email doesn’t help me in this case. Please provide a contact ASAP.

Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:32 PM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.
Please advise if this should be sent to another email address for IT.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
This might be for the agencies.

Thanks,
Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

000239
Document Released Under the Access to
InResument Raleaaed Hrederctheiiecess tertu

ddnformation AgtdResumentaiaulgné en vertu
de Ia Loi sur l'accés a l'information

moral compulsion, frustration, and pain of inaction, versus social, emotional, and familial
pressures to stay. Yet, within two months of deciding he would have to “go to the light,” Jabber
was fighting in Syria.

The effect that events in Syria and Iraq, projected through improvised and startling propaganda
materials, have had on our sample of foreign fighters’ desire to travel to the Levant is clear. It is
not enough to affect the decision to travel however. Through an exposition of what this report
describes as fighting communities, the next section will illustrate how the online interactions
within and between peer groups of recruits and fighters creates a stake in the conflict, thus
cementing the decision to travel in the recruit’s mind.

17

000022

000024
s.19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

i +a Public Safety Sécurité publique

Canada Canada

   

i. see mailtor 3! ___ @cbe.ca
Sent: ‘monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP}

Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

. secure drop: hips: TS cbe. ca/

000240
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 5(1) - Subv Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) —

 

From: Harold Pfleiderer <harold.pfleiderer@rcmp-grc.ge.ca>

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 3:32 PM _

To: CSEC-CSTC, Media; Delisle, Annie; Gagnon, Julie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP);
=| Media Relations@chsa-asfc.gc.ca;

Ce: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,
we are planning on using the following line:
"The RCMP traditionally does not confirm the use of specific software used for investigative purposes"

Rgds
Harold

Harold Pfleiderer, sergeant/Sergent

Media Relations Officer / Agent des relations avec les médias
National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication

73 Leikin Drive / 73 promenade Leikin
Suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeuble M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613)843-5999
Fax/Téléc.: (613)825-8250
Harold, Pfleiderer@rcmp-gre.gc.ca

Media requests/ demandes médiatiques:

RCMP.HOMediaRelations-DGRelationsmedias.GRC@rcmp-grc.gc.ca

>>> “Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)" <jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:57 PM >>>
Hi Julie,

Given that CSE and CSIS are both ready to go with a response, we will ask that the RCMP respond directly as well.
Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Julie Gagnon [mailto:julie.gaqnon@rcmp-qre. qe. ca]

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 2:10 PM

To: CSEC-CSTC, Media; Delisle Annie; Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP); |
Pfleiderer, Harold; ,
Cc: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP): Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); Martel, Karine (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

1

   

; Media.Relations@cbsa-asfc.gc.ca;

 

000241
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Allo jean-Philippe,

We have received the same request from Mr. __.We are looking into it at this time... Are you taking the lead for all

the portfolio agencies?

 

Thanks
Julie

Julie Gagnon, S/Sergeant/s.é.-m.

NCO i/c Media Relations / sous-officier en charge des relations avec les médias
RCMP National Communication Services/

Services nationaux de communication de la GRC

73 Leikin Dr. / 73 promenade Leikin

suite 801, M8 Building, Mailstop #68 / Suite 801, Immeuble M8, Arrét postal 68
Ottawa, Ontario K1A OR2

Tel: (613) 843-5999

Fax/Téléc.: (613) 825-8250

julie.gagnon@rcmp-grc.gc.ca

>>> "Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)” <jean-philippe levert@canada.ca> 2017/05/08 2:06 PM >>>
Good afternoon colleagues,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.

Please advise if advise if the RCMP, CBSA, CSIS and/or CSEC have contracts with them or have purchased licenses from
their software.

DEADLINE: 3:30 pm today

JOURNALIST:

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there
seems to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Thanks,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

| +] Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Canada

000242
Document Released Under the Access to
s.19(1) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

From: "= @cbc.ca]
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11: 36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

 

   

pgp: hi https: keybas io/
. pgp fingerprint:
. secure drop: https: iisecuredrop. ob. caf

 

000243
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 11:10 AM

To: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)

Subject: FW: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety

use Palantir software?

Voila ©

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 2:03 PM

To: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA 0O.SP

Subject: Fw: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

ADM approved below.

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM

Conseillére principale en politiques 4 la SMA

Corporate Management Branch-Direction générale de la gestion ministérielle
Public Safety Canada-Sécurité publique Canada

613-990-2842

From: Weber, Caroline (PS/SP) <caroline.weber@canada.ca>

Sent: Tuesday, May 9, 2017 2:01 PM

To: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA O.SP

Subject: RE: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Approved.

-Caroline

 

From: Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:57 PM

To: Weber, Caroline (PS/SP)

Cc: PS.O CMB ADMO / SGM BSMA 0O.SP

Subject: Fw: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Guylaine Tremblay

Senior Policy Advisor to the ADM

Conseillére principale en politiques ala SMA

Corporate Management Branch-Direction générale de la gestion ministérielle
Public Safety Canada-Sécurité publique Canada

613-990-2842

000244
Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

From: Poirier, Christianne (PS/SP) <christianne.poirier@canada.ca>

Sent: Tuesday, May 9, 2017 1:56 PM ©

To: Smith-Chao, Shawn (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP)}

Cc: Krul, Thomas (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Gervais, Helene (PS/SP); Wong, Betty (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Agree. Guylaine, the response below is good.

Christianne

 

From: Smith-Chao, Shawn (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 1:49 PM

To: Poirier, Christianne (PS/SP)

Ce: Krul, Thomas (PS/SP); Monsour, Alexa (PS/SP); Gervais, Helene (PS/SP); Tremblay4, Guylaine (PS/SP); Wong, Betty
(PS/SP) .

Subject: For Approval - RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi Christianne, Comms mistakenly directly sent this Media Request to us regarding use of Palantir Software. Guylaine
has resolved the matter such that we will no longer get directly tasked, but has asked we provide a response. If you
approve the response, it will be sent on to Caroline.

RESPONSE:
The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.”

Response was confirmed with Procurement.
Thank you,

Shawn Smith-Chao

Director, Client Services and Applications Division (Acting)
Public Safety Canada, Government of Canada
Email: shawn.smith-chao@canada.ca Tel: 613-355-2461

Directeur, Division du service a la clientéle et des applications (Intérimaire)
Sécurité publique Canada, Gouvernement du Canada
Courriel: shawn.smith-chao@canada.ca Tel: 613-355-2461

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP) [mailto:jean-philippe.levert@canada.ca

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:32 AM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Media request for URGENT input: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Importance: High

Good morning,
Please advise as soon as possible as the reporter’s deadline was yesterday.

The confirmation of receipt email doesn’t help me in this case. Please provide a contact ASAP.

000245
5.1 9(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Thanks,

JP Levert

 

From: Levert, Jean-Philippe (PS/SP)

Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 4:32 PM

To: IT Helpdesk / Assistance TI (PS/SP)

Cc: Martel, Karine (PS/SP); Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP); Grenier, Julie (PS/SP); McCammon, Cindy (PS/SP)
Subject: Media request: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Good afternoon,

Please see below, a media request we received regarding Palantir Technologies and big data analysis for your input.
Please advise if this should be sent to another email address for IT.

DEADLINE: 5 pm today

JOURNALIST: | _ -cCBC

 

QUESTION: I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software?

NOTES: Palantir Tehcnologies’ datan mining software has been used by several Us intelligence agencies and there seems
to be some problems emerging between Palantir and the US intelligence agencies lately.

Please advise who might be able to advise if PSC has contracts with them or has purchased licenses from their software.
This might be for the agencies.

Thanks,
Jean-Philippe Levert

Communications Officer | Agent de communications

Issues Management Team, Public Affairs Division | Gestion des enjeux, Affaires publiques
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

T (New) : 613-991-0657 | F : 613-954-4779

Bb: 613-220-5201

i +i Public Safety Sécurité publique
Canada Ganada

 

From: (mailto:
Sent: Monday, May 08, 2017 11:36 AM
To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

 

: | @cbc.ca]

 

 

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to me
by EOD on this.

Thanks,

000246
s 19(1) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

 

  
    

s CBC News

 

 

. pgp: https://keybase.io,
. pgp fingerprint: -
. secure drop: https://securedrop.cbe.ca/

 

000247
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 5(1) - Subv Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
, de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

s.19(1)
Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP) "
From: Gowing, Andrew (PS/SP)
Sent: Monday, May 15, 2017 10:23 AM -
To: 2
Subject: FW: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?
Hi Tahera

| left you a voicemail on this call last week. Can you please give me a call whenever you have a moment (not urgent).

Thanks
-Andrew

 

From: [mailto == = @cbe.ca]

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 5:20 PM

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)

Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Is it possible that Public Safety employees were entering data into Palantir software that was
purchased/operated/approved for use by another government department? I'm not trying to be difficult here, but

' Treally can't square why multiple people from the same government department would claim to have used this
software as part of their Public Safety duties.

On Wed, May 10, 2017 at 5:16 PM, Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

Hi again,

As previously mentioned, Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We
do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Regards,

Jean-Philippe Levert

Spokesperson / Porte-parole

Media Relations / Relations avec les médias
Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

613-991-0657

000248
s 19(1 ) Document Released Under the Access to
. Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

media@ps-sp.gc.ca

 

= mailto! @ebe.cal

Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 3:26 PM

 

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Understood. But why then would people who say they worked at Public Safety list Palantir software under a
description of their job duties?

On Wed, May 10, 2017 at 3:16 PM Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

 

As mentioned in our previous response, Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved
software list. We do not have at this time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Regards,
JP Levert

From: Hi
Sent: Wednesday, May 10, 2017 10:32 AM

 

To: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hi J ean-Philippe—

000249
Document Released Under the Access to

In ian Ate i gue en ygrtu
cee ESR REY Jué en vertu

de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

Fighting Communities

The previous chapter illustrates how the cumulative effects of interactions with online
propaganda create pains of inaction among recruits. This creates a moral crisis that has a
profound effect on their desire to mobilise. A second activity that this report argues contributes
towards radicalisation, specifically the decision to mobilise, is interaction within fighting
communities made up of recruits and fighters already in theatre.

Using modern information technology and continually evolving social media platforms, foreign
fighters and recruits can, for the first time, interact with each other directly in real time. Rather
than relying on the writings, audio recordings and video lectures of learned but inaccessible
ideologues, recruits can now receive wisdom and encouragement directly and on a personalised
basis. This unprecedented accessibility allows recruits to build a stake in the conflict, connecting
with fighters before seeking to emulate them. Using social media data, again cited in text and
presented in the appendix, this chapter will illustrate how these fighting communities are created,
how they operate and how the dynamics within them contribute towards radicalisation of the
recruit.

Platforms

The research has identified two strands of interaction that occur within these fighting
communities, which this report categorises as anonymous and public. The platforms used provide
the fighter with the opportunity to proselytise his group’s message while giving personal advice
and guidance to recruits. These are not mutually exclusive interactions, however they are at times
distinctive within the data.

The anonymous strand is the interaction of recruits and fighters through platforms with
anonymity functions, the most prevalent of which is Ask.fm. This platform asks users to set up
an account, provide a name/alias and a short biography, for which the individual decides upon
the level of discretion shown. Users then receive questions from anonymous contributors; once
the user has responded, both the question and the answer are posted onto the users timeline,
concealing the identity of the questioner and providing a rolling commentary. Given the nature
of the platform, it is the strand most commonly used by fighters to give advice across a range of
topics.

The.public strand involves the interactions of potential and actual foreign fighters over platforms
that are open, in which all participants are identified through their usernames and the personal
information they have provided. The most commonly utilised platform for this has been Twitter.
Twitter does have a privacy function, however none of the fighters in our sample had utilised it.
This is logical; for the foreign fighter, messaging over open platforms is ‘framing’ in itself.
Openly flaunting violent and ‘illegal’ activity is a central tenet to the identity of the foreign
fighter, and a common behaviour for an individual actively trying to disavow the West.

Anonymous Interaction

18

000023
000025
5.1 9(1 ) . Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Many thanks for looking into this for me. I do have a follow-up I'm hoping you can look into for me.

There are at least two Public Safety employees who appear to list using Palantir software as part of their work.

1, https://www.linkedin.com/in/

 

2. https://www.linkedin.com/in/carl-sharpe-b2658363/

Can you provide any clarity here? It seems to suggest that Palantir software is, in fact, used — but I want to be
sure.

Apologies for not sending this along with my initial request. I only came across it yesterday.

Thanks again,

 

On Tue, May 9, 2017 at 3:22 PM, Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP) <ps.mediarelations-
relationsaveclesmedias.sp@canada.ca> wrote:

The Palantir software is not used at Public Safety, nor is it a part of our approved software list. We do not have at this
time, nor have previously had, a contract with Palantir.

Kind regards,

Jean-Philippe Levert
Spokesperson / Porte-parole

Media Relations / Relations avec les médias

000250
Document Released Under the Access to
s.1 9(1 ) Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Public Safety Canada / Sécurité publique Canada

613-991-0657

media@ps-sp.gc.ca

Sent: Tuesday, May 09, 2017 10:27 AM
Ta: Media Relations / Relations avec les médias (PS/SP)
Subject: Re: CBC News / Does Public Safety use Palantir software?

Hello again! Just checking in. Can I expect to receive any comment on this?

 

On Mon, May 8, 2017 at 11:36 AM, @cbe.ca> wrote:

Hi there—

I'm writing a story about a big data analytics company called Palantir Technologies. Do you know if Public
Safety has any contracts with them, or has purchased licenses for their software? Hoping you can get back to
me by EOD on this.

Thanks,

 

   

> CBC News

 

000251
Document Released Under the Access to

Sadia eco 6

de la Loi sur faceés a Vinformation

With regard the anonymous strand, given the sheet volume of data collected, a complete
identification of every topic was not possible.*! The research identified topics that separate into
two broad categories, both of which illuminate the role that the fighter plays in the community —
advice and inspiration. Advice falls into hijrah and non-hijrah related topics, both of which are
important. Hijrah related enquiries include the permissibility of female mobilisation, finances,
logistics of travel and fighting experience. Non-hijrah related advice tends to cover topics in
which the contributor has identified a lack of guidance in navigating everyday domestic issues

_ from schooling to personal loans.

Inspiration is a nebulous category in which recruits look to relate with the actual fighters on
more emotive terms. This can be through requests for spiritual and moral support on matters such
as mitigating against family reaction to migration and killing fellow Muslims, to at times just
sharing affection in ways synonymous with ‘in-group love.’

Public Interaction

The public strand of interactions offers a different perspective on the importance of contacts
between fighters and recruits. The fighter becomes a chameleon of different personas, from the -
missionary jihadist to the devoted martyr. In all the cases collected, members of the sample are
seen interacting with other members of the sample, some of whom have already made hijrah. In
some cases, a progression and intensification of views is visible, and at other times not. Other
interactions shown here are between fighters both of whom have already travelled. Interaction
done openly such as this sends an empowering message to recruits and thus needs to be included.

© Mashadhur Choudhary and Ifthekar Jaman

Mashadhur Choudhury was a member of the ‘Portsmouth cluster’ of fighters who travelled at
different times to Syria in 2013. Choudhary is the only member of the sample to have been

. arrested, charged and sentenced to four years in prison on his return from Syria, and thus more
knowledge of his trajectory is known. According to court documents, plans to travel developed
during the summer of 2013, culminating in his departure in the October.® 5 His interlocutor was
Ifthekar Jaman, also in our sample, who had travelled to the region in May 2013. Choudhury
only remained in the Levant for two weeks before allegedly being rejected as a recruit. Thus his
Ask.fm and his twitter do not reflect his time in theatre.

 

*! Over ten thousand unique inquiries, stored by the ICSR in full, were collected and stored in the database. This
dissertation did not have the scope to code the entire dataset.

® All of the interactions are reproduced with the original spelling and grammatical errors. See Appendix; Figures 8,
9.

33 Appendix; Figures 10, 11
s Sageman identifies love for the in-group as a strong motivating factor in the decision to commit violence. See

Sageman, M., Understanding Terror Networks, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania University Press, 2004. See Appendix;
Figures 12, 13. .

®5 Casciani, D., ‘Mashadhur Choudhary: Serial liar and jihadist’, BBC News, May 20" 2014, accessed August 26°,
2015 at http: INweww -bbe.co.uk/news/uk-2749 1066

19

000024

000026
pecument Released Under the Access to

as once ith i pees en igttu
ig ument ue on vertu

de ta Loi sur I’ acces a Tinformation

His twitter account is a valuable example of online interactions with actual fighters however,
illustrating the offline interactions that were taking place in the lead up to his departure, which
will be focused on more in the next chapter. His online interaction with fellow members of the
Portsmouth cluster was an inevitable result of their friendship. With Jaman, they range from the
‘banal matters of arranging meeting times at their mosque, debates and disagreement, and
indications of potentially making hijrah.*

© Aseel Muthana

Aseel Muthana, along with his brother Nasser Muthanna, were two fighters from Cardiff who
came to have associations with the Portsmouth cluster. Aseel’s early twitter interactions
demonstrate an interest in foreign fighters months before making hijrah. During the month of
November, Aseel retweeted or interacted with five different foreign fighters, one of which was
his brother Nasser. Four of those fighters originate from the UK while the other, Abu Fulan, was
Danish.®’ In November he reached out to Abu Qa’ qaa, a fighter from the UK, seeking a link to
his Tumblr blog ‘Paladin of Jihad’ which documented his transition from recruit to fighter and
his subsequent experiences in the Levant.** As his tweets show, Aseel was an active twitter
contributor within the milieu he became apart of.®

Understanding the Dynamics

The dynamics within the fighting community that contribute towards the decision to mobilise can
be conceptualised on two levels. The macro level describes the broader effects the new media
ecology on the socialisation of individuals, in this instance recruits interested in becoming

. foreign fighters. The micro level describes the effects that increased accessibility to foreign
fighters has on the recruit’s attitudes towards the conflict and the responsibilities he has towards
his fellow Muslims.

The New Media Ecology

The phrase ‘Web 2.0’ is commonly cited in the literature on online radicalisation and refers to

‘the World Wide Web’s transition during the new millennium into the second generation, a space
that now “encompasses a growing array of interactive communications systems facilitated by a
rapidly expanding set of platforms. "% The period gave birth to the platforms that we recognise
today — “numerous websites, blogs, forums and message boards”*!— while laying the foundation
for the most modem iterations of apps and instant messaging services that have seamlessly

% See Appendix; Figures 14, 15, 16

7 See Appendix; Figures 17, 18

%8 This blog is catalogued in full by the ICSR. See Appendix; Figure 19

® See Appendix; Figures 20, 21

% Amble, J.C., "Combating terrorism in the new media environment", Studies in Conflict and Terrorism 35(5),

2012, p. 339
5! Ducol, B., "Uncovering the French-speaking Jihadisphere: An exploratory analysis", Media, War and Conflict

Vol. 5(1), 2012, p. 51
20

000025
000027
ocument Released Under the Access to

oi TALIA he ore

de la Loi sur l'accés 4 Linformation

interwoven into our “new media ecology.”*” Social media, as Haidt notes, makes it
“extraordinarily easy to join crusades, express solidarity and outrage, and shun traitors.”
Facebook was founded in 2004, for example; this means that the first wave of students who spent
their formative years using the ¢ platform are now reaching early adulthood, the prime
demographic for mobilisation.” Haidt goes on to argue that these first true “social-media
natives” are different in how they share and engage with friends over moral judgments, news
stories, and pro-social endeavours compared the previous generation, whose dominant
technology was television.”

This has undoubtedly affected their socialisation. For Shapiro and Margolin, ‘standing out’ i.e.
developing an identity while pursuing autonomy, and ‘fitting in’ i.e. finding acceptance from
peers through comfortable affiliations, are the paradoxical yet crucial tasks in an individuals
social development during adolescents.” For the authors, this clearly intersects in the modern
age with the use of these platforms, relating to adolescents social connectivity and identity
development more so than previous communications technologies. For Shapiro and Margolin,
sociability, self-esteem and the nature of the SNS feedback act as important potential
moderators, affectin, ting the identity creation of the individual as well as the development of the
offline interactions.

Anew y report the Pew Research Centre that explored the “new contours of friendship in the
digital age” supports these findings.”* Rather than the traditional perception that teenagers are in
some way wasting time online, the study indicates not just that new relationships are being
created but that offline, real world friendships are being strengthened. This appears to follow a
broader sociological trend that teenagers are spending less time face-to-face and that the online
world provides a space for them to ‘hang-out’ more.”” One of the authors, Lenhart, claimed that
“many teenagers can’t choose to go and physically be with their friends...any number of things
may contribute to teenagers having fewer opportunities to gather physically than they once did,
from changes in drivers’ licensing to genuinely unsafe neighbourhoods to a parental perception
that allowing a teenager the freedom to roam freely by bike or on foot is less safe than it was in

.

 

. ™ See Awan, A. et al., Radicalisation and Media: Connectivity and terrorism in the new media ecology, Routledge,
Oxford, 2011.
> Haidt, J. .; Lukianoff, G., ‘The Coddling of the American Mind’, 7he Atlantic, September 2015, last accessed
August 26", 2015, http://www theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2015/09/the-coddling-of-the-american-
mind/3 993 56/

% oid. (015) ° ;

% Shapiro, L.A.S, Margolin, G., ‘Growing Up Wired: Social Networking Sites and Adolescent Psychosocial
Development’, Clinical Child Family Psychological Review, (17), 2014, p. 1
” 0 id. (2014)

% Lenhart, A. et al, ‘Teens, Technology & Friendships: Video games, social media and mobile phones play an
integral role in how teens meet and interact with friends’, Pew Research Centre, ee 2015, accessed August
26”, 2015, https ewinternet. S Teens-and ' if, p. 2.

* Tid. (2015)

 

21

000026
000028
Document Released Under the Access to

~ InfppeateatRbiddesy wRabrthe suede tertu
detktdeictidin! Asef Sclinlent enagué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

the past.”!° “The online space is a way of expanding teenagers’ ability to be with friends when
they aren’t able to be with them in person.”!

From the perspective of radicalisation, this behaviour creates online milieus that act as echo
chambers in which interactions based on ‘in-group love’ and/or ‘out-group hate’ can build
powerful social bonds, especially in the case of violent extremism. Brewer notes that equilibrium
is achieved through “identification with distinctive social groups that meet both needs
simultaneously. Inclusion needs are-satisfied by assimilation within the group while
differentiation is satisfied by intergroup distinctions.” To devolve to violence is an attempt to
earn acceptance, respect and ultimately love within the group one is attempting to identify with.
Another dynamic, provided by McCauley and Moskalenko and reiterated by Sageman, is that of
the ‘risky shift.’ When a group initially begins to form, there i is an increased level of agreement,
and a ‘shift’ in opinion from the moderate to the extreme.’ Sageman expands on this theory by
focusing in on the level of the individual. Extremists, he argues, radicalise in order to attain
identity within the "clique" rather than due to ideology or ‘out-group’ animosity. Grievances
within the clique become amplified, bonds become stronger and values become more insular and
tejectionist towards the outside world.!™

All of this evidence chimes with the experiences of the recruits in our sample. Each recruit had
significant social media footprints, indicating a large amount of time spent online, and used the
mediums to expand their social circles. Jt was through Twitter, for example, that the Manchester
duo of Abu Qa’qaa and Raphael Hostey came across Ifthekar Jaman and the Portsmouth cluster,
with whom they would subsequently meet and receive tazkiyyah.'*> Tam Hussein, writing about
the West London fighter Fatlum Shakalu, noted this about the group from which he emerged,
that is applicable to each of the clusters in our sample:

“The [online/offline] connections they were making, the culture they were creating...they
had their own terminology, they wore their Salafi-Jihadism on their robes, blended it
with rebellious Roadmannism, garnished it with a bit of Anwar Awlaki, Quran, Sunnah
and a bit of thug life. They could yearn desperately for forgiveness and paradise, and in
their youthful ardour want a sense of belonging and adventure.”

Building a Stake in the Conflict

 

100 Dell' Antonia, K_J., ‘Teenagers Leading Happy, Connected Lives Online’, The New York Times, August 6", 2015,
last accessed August 26%, 2015 at http: iIparenting blogs.nytimes. com/2015/08/06/teenagers-leading-happy-
connected-lives-online/
101 rhid, (2015)
12 Brewer, M. B., ‘In-group Identification and Conflict: When does In-group Love Become Out-group Hate’,
In Social Identity, Intergroup Conflict, and Conflict Reduction, ed. by Ashmore, E., et al., Oxford: OUP, 2001, p. 43
13 WicCauley, M., & Moskalenko, S., "Mechanisms of Political Radicalization," Terrorism and Political Violence,
Vol. 20, 2008, p. 421
 Sageman, M., “The Next Generation of Terror," Foreign Policy, Vol. 165, 2008, p. 41
195 ‘This is further explained in Chapter Three.
106 Hussein (2015)

22

000027

000029
Document Released Under the Access to

Ibosunient Reledded Undet theukceesmtocrtu

dinfertatian AottBooutndm diviigaé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information.

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: ‘ Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Sent: Thursday, January 26, 2017 12:44 PM
To: : _ Corbeil, Alexander (PS/SP)

Subject: : RE: Event Notes

Attachments: . report canada internet.docx |

Great stuff — thank you! Now key next bit is that I’d like some help pulling together more precise ideas about what kinds
of processes (individual, group, community) are relevant to consider.

This line of yours below is a great example of what J have in mind:

- (Note: Question becomes how to ensure potential members do not follow into the depths of IS Telegram
accounts, what role for messaging in countering this progression?)

Examples would be the three dynamics listed in the attached ICSR paper.
Or the ‘who matters online’ paper by Berger a while back, plus his more recent arguments on

Also thinking about the ideas in the ‘cyber psych’ paper (h tsas ca tsas library ent ilts S- sment-of-

 

extremism/), such as the formation of certain kinds of identity groups, along with examples form Lorne and Amar’s
recent work. The Vidino paper here (http://carleton.ca/npsia/research/working-papers/) would have some as well,
along with ISD’s One-to-One, or Moonshot/Jigsaw work (trying to catch early searching, etc.).

In short, it would be great to have a bit of a list (incomplete for now to be sure!), of some examples of what one would
be trying to accomplish, such as ‘to ensure potential members do not follow...’

 

From: Corbeil, Alexander (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, January 25, 2017 2:23 PM
To: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Subject: Event Notes

Hey Brett,
” Here are my notes regarding the event we discussed.

The event’s goals are as follows: 1) Describe terrorist messaging capabilities and associated challenges 2) Measure the
effectiveness of allied efforts 3) Share best practices in messaging.

Defining the Problem:
- Context: .
o Ease of access to terrorist messaging and propaganda: the globalization of real-time terrorist

facilitation/financing, incitement/inspiration, training and planning.

© Aprofessionatization of extremist content online, enabled by the proliferation and reduce in cost of
professional quality camera, sound and editing equipment; also the presence of Western and other
“foreign fighters” who have both the technological knowhow and cultural/linguistic relevance related to

their target audiences.

000001

000003
Document Released Under the Access to

Inf ShiebCGu RUE ANU AuG sa Ye"
iat eet lué en vertu

de Ja Loi sur f'accés 4 Finformation
L

This section looks to further the work of Brachman-and Levine with regard the relationship
between jihadist ideologues and potential radicals by arguing that the foreign fighter represents ©
the progression of a dynamic they first identified in 2011.!’ Consider this quote from their 2011
article ‘You Too Can Be Awlaki’: ,

Youth who are seeking role models need someone who is easier to emulate, a figure that
they can become without too much work or thought, and who makes them feel as if they
are producing something meaningful and relevant.'®

While capturing the essence of the recruit’s psychology, the quote is not related to foreign
fighters but the relationship between online jihadist activists, a nuanced and important difference.
Originally, the interactions between jihadist ideologues and recruits were of a style befitting that
of producer and consumer - the ‘heavy-weight’ ideologues such as Abdullah Azzam and Abu
Muhammed al-Magqdisi produced literature and speeches that were disseminated around the
world for potential jihadists to read and listen to. The ideologues thus relied on interlocutors to
connect them with the their global audience. The Committee for Advice and Reform, for
example, was Osama Bin Laden’s pressure group based in London that printed and provided
materials to would-be jihadists across the UK.’” Given the decentralised nature of the
transnational jihadist network, especially with the emergence of Al Qaeda, the culture of contact
and accessibility to the most influential ideologues was non-existent.

The advent of this interface has had a profound effect on the relationship between the ideologue
and the potential jihadist and paved the way for the creation of the ‘Celebrity Shaykh.”"!° The
original ideologues were learned scholars with high levels of legitimacy but low levels of
accessibility. That is not to say that the advent of information technologies affected their —
influence - far from it.''! However, the face of jihadism did begin to change. Younger, more
technologically savvy preachers were able to substitute theological and scholarly depth with
charisma and translatability. Soon, potential jihadists could follow these ideologues online,
watch and read their material and seek to emulate them in a way not previously possible.'!* They
could also interact with fellow enthusiasts in password-protected forums and chat-rooms, whose
influence on radicalisation has been well established in the literature.!"?_

The most prominent example of this trend us Anwar al-Awlaki, arguably the most influential
English language propagandist of his generation.!" Brachman and Levine note a number of

‘7 Brachman, J.M., Levine, A.N., ‘You Too Can Be Awlakil’, The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, Vol. 35, No. 1,
Winter 2011, pp. 25-46 ,

108 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 30

1 See Curtis, M., Secret Affairs: Britain's Collusion with Radical Islam, London: Serpent's Tail, 2012.

"10 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 29

1! Maqdisi, Abu Bak Naji, Osama Bin Laden and Abdullah Azzam remain heavily cited by all Sunni insurgent

groups, regardless of their allegiances.
2 See Meleagrou-Hitchens, A., ‘As American as Apple Pie: How Anwar al-Awlaki became the Face of Western

Jihad’, ICSR: London, 2011 .
113 See Stevens, T., & Neumann, P., ‘Countering Online Radicalisation: A Strategy for Action,’ ICSR: London,

~ 2009
4 Roshonora Choudhary, for example, sentenced to life in prison for the attempted murder of Steven Pimms MP
for his vote in favour of the Iraq war, cited the lectures of Awlaki as a direct influence in her interviews with police.
: 23
000028

. 000030
Document Released Under the Access to

delat teat gc ene

de fa Loi sur l'aceés & information

factors that contributed towards his accessibility. First was the style of his numerous online

videos, lectures and recordings, “a caricature of previous generations of hard-line Salafi

clerics.”!*5 Awlaki lacked the knowledge and expertise of his forbearers, but was perceived as
more authentic than the Sheikhs he looked to emulate,!!6 The messages retained the piety but lost
the religiosity, which attracted an audience that lacked the depth of education required to
appreciate the ‘heavy-weight’ ideologues of previous generations.'!” His “back-to-basics”
approach was also very effective, impacting on both emotional and intellectual levels.!!® This
increased accessibility through technology allowed recruits to emulate their ideologues and carry
the momentum of the jihadist movement without the precondition of entrenched theological and
scholarly legitimacy.

This inverse relationship between scholarly legitimacy and accessibility has reached its zenith
with the advent of modern fighting communities. Actual foreign fighters have become the lightest
of the “lite sheikhs” that Brachman and Levine theorised, the effectiveness of their messaging
and approach a result of the sheer level of accessibility they afford online. An irony is at play
here. In his exhaustive investigation into the mobilisation of Fatlum Shakalu, Hussein notes a
high number of recruits without the required skill set to properly interpret the text. For the “born
again devotee”, alienated from the community and inspired by the disembodied fighter living in
the Levant, “no middle man was required to distil that seemingly contradictory mass of Prophetic
sayings and Quranic verses.”!!° ,

Referring back to the earlier quote, the primed individuals are looking for “role models” to
emulate; the ease with which these recruits can interact with the actual fighters, who are able to
provide easy answers to difficult questions, builds familiarity trust between the fighter and the
recruit, strengthening the decision of the fighter to travel. While offering the opportunity to
produce actions that are ‘meaningful and relevant’, the communities elicit the characteristics of
the ‘in-group’, echo chambers in which the themes and sentiments intensify and result in
increased chances of radicalisation. ; .

The first two chapters have shown how online interactions can affect the desire and decision of
the recruit to mobilise. The third chapter will argue that the transition from decision to action
cannot be explained with recourse to the Internet, and instead relies on offline interactions within
and between peer groups. ‘

115 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 27
116 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 27
"7 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 28
18 Brachman and Levine (2011), p. 28
119 Hussein (2015)

24

000029

000031
Document Released Under the Access to

InigupatvenrRelekesy MARS AKUlae dE YEU

denttohtatidh RECA Ge! gué en vertu
de la Loi sur ['aceés‘4 l'information

On and Offline

In July 2015, Syed Choudhary was jailed for plotting to travel to join Islamic State. The
prosecution described how the teenager began researching the conflict online, accessing websites
such as ‘10 reasons to join ISIS’ and ‘Turkey travel, Jihadist Highway.”!?° His lawyer noted that
Choudhary “was openly using Facebook and Twitter accounts that could link to him to material
that was highly incriminating. There appears to be no attempt at all to disguise his involvement
or insulate himself from detection.”!”! Syed’s case can be understood with reference to the last

_ two chapters, which have sought to demonstrate how online activity can affect the desire and
decision to become a foreign fighter. However, a detail in the case perfectly encapsulates the ‘
argument of this chapter and the driving thesis of the report; when first arrested in December °
2014, Choudhary told police that the reason that he had not travelled was because he had not
found anyone trustworthy to travel with.'”” Thus, while the online activity may affect the desire-
and decision to travel, overwhelming evidence suggests that the actual mobilisation relies on —
offline interactions. Having explained the dynamics behind this mechanism, the chapter will use
recent historical data to illustrate two key examples in which offline interactions appear central
to the recruit’s transition from decision to action.

Explaining the Dynamics

The dynamics of offline interactions, while not a new phenomenon, represents a key factor in the
practical mobilisation of foreign fighters. While the online fighting communities help to build a
commitment to the cause through virtual connections, the peer-to-peer relationships are crucial in
facilitating the transition from decision to actual mobilisation. Evidence suggests that this is _
practical as well as psychological; resources and logistics become easier to organise in a group
than individually. The same goes for deception; convincing concerned relatives or friends that
your intentions and actions are benign may become more plausible if part of a small group of
‘trusted’ peers. ‘

This is a trend that has become central to the way that mobilisation has come to be understood.
In America, a minority within the Somali-American population in the suburbs around
Minneapolis have actively facilitated the recruitment of fighters to Islamic State, with the most
recent arrests occurring in mid-April 2015.'”° At least 59 Belgian foreign fighters were affiliated
with Sharia4Belgium, with most originating out of the geographical axis of Antwerp, Mechelen,
Vilvorde and Brussels.'** Of the eighteen Swedish fighters identified by the Combating
Terrorism Center in 2013, eleven were from two small neighbouring suburbs of Gothenburg —

29 Spillet, R., ‘Teenager who planned to join ISIS in Syria and said ‘all gay people should be killed’ is jailed for
more than three years’, Mail Online, July 7°, 2015, accessed August 26" 2015,
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3 152172/Teenager-planned-join-ISIS-jailed-three-years html

"21 Thid. (2015)

22 Thid. (2015)

13 Johnson, K., & Bacon, J., ‘Six arrested in anti-terrorism sweep, latest in string of such cases’, USA Today, April
20* 2015, accessed August 26" 2015, http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2015/04/1 9/federal-agents-terror-
sweep-minneapolis-san-diego/26054419/ ,

124 Van Ostaeyen, P., ‘Belgian Fighters in Syria and Iraq — April 2015,’ April 5* 2015, accessed April 26" 2015, at

- https://pietervanostacyen.wordpress.com/?s=belgian+ foreign+fighters&submit=Search /

25

000030

000032
Document Released Under the Access to

Inggmatishy diese Digs tie aueoen ys
Bsiidetior edited Bud en eu
dela Loi sur Faccés 4 l'information

Angered and Bergsjén — leading Magnus Norrell to conclude that recruitment in Sweden
occurred through ties of friendship.'”° In discussing Sharia4Holland, the AIVD concluded that
these movements have created “an environment in which people with similar ideas meet and
develop radical ideas into jihadist ideologies. This group dynamic has led to a rapid
radicalization of many individuals as well as concrete attempts to join the jihad in Syria.”!”6

The creation of strong personal bonds is important, for two reasons. Firstly, they facilitate the
first psychological step into “high risk activism” as described by Douglas McAdam.'”” In
McAdam’s model, the individual first becomes primed through socialisation with friends and
family, making them receptive to new political attitudes. When offline contact with activists —

_ follows, the chances of low-risk activism increases. For the individual to then transition into
high-risk activism, such as mobilisation to fight jihad, ‘biographical availability’ i.e. “the
absence of personal constraints that may increase the costs and risks of movement participation,
such as full-time employment, marriage, and family responsibilities” becomes the limiting
factor.!”* This paper suggests that the intensely existential and emotive nature of the current
conflict affects the extent to which ‘biographical availability’ becomes a limiting factor. Fighters
have shown a willingness to overcome these barriers in unprecedented ways, including uprooting
entire families, including young children and pregnant women, and travelling to Syria.'

The strong personal bonds also create the basis for the potential recruits to receive tazkiyyah.

’ This is best understood as “reference” or “guarantee” for a prospective fighter that establishes
their sincerity and bona fides. For the individual receiving tazkiyyah it immediately validates
their commitment and standing to a fighting group to whom they would otherwise be entirely
unknown. For the individual providing tazkiyyah it also denotes their trust in, and loyalty ,
towards, the recipient. Tazkiyyah is provided, therefore, by an actual fighter in support of a
recruit. Militant groups often require these references both as a security requirement to mitigate
against spies, but also to ensure the recruit is devotionally committed.

The underlying element to these dynamics, one that ultimately explains the success or failure of
any relationship, and one that can be illustrated to have been crucial in the recruitment of these
individuals, is trust. Online interactions become limited in this regard; using jihadi web forums
as an example, Hegghammer argues, “the scarcity of non-verbal cues...facilitates deceptive -
mimicry which undermines the interpersonal trust for sensitive transactions.””°° While not quite
to the same degree given the more personal nature of the interactions between fighter and recruit,

5 Norrell quote in Gudmondson, P., ‘The Swedish Foreign Fighter Contingent in Syria’, Combating Terrorism
Center Sentinel, September 24" 2013, accessed April 26" 2015, at https://www.ctc.usma.edu/posts/the-swedish-
foreign-fighter-contingent-in-syria

126 “Reisbewegingen jihadistisch terrorisme,” AIVD statement on movements of terrorism, General Intelligence and
Security Service of the Netherlands, September 2013. ,

27 McAdam, D., ‘Recruitment to High-Risk Activism: The Case of Freedom Summer,’ American Journal of
Sociology, Volume 92, Issue 1, 1986, pp. 64-90

"3 ibid. p.70  . ‘

29 Brooks-Pollock, T., “Yes we have joined ISIS say missing British family of 12 who fled to Syria’, The
Independent, July 4°, 2015, accessed August 26", 2015 http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/yes-we-
have-joined-isis-say-missing-british-family-of-12-who-fled-to-syria-luton-islamic-state-isis-isil-iraq-10365915.html
130 Hegghammer, T., ‘Interpersonal Trust on Jihadi Internet Forums’, Norwegian Defence Research Establishment
(FFI) February 19th, 2014, accessed March 19%, 2015 http://hegghammer.com/_files/Interpersonal_trust.pdf.

26
000031

000033
Document Released Under the Access to

Infogeatieine’Rbiedesy ORUbF iY suede Yertu
detkidemictidn! AeePRSclMGHTAARUS en vertu
de ta Loi sur l'accés a I’ information

trust reaches a threshold without face-to-face interactions. Merari advances the argument,
claiming that trust precipitates violence. The decision to commit an extreme act of violence, for,
example a suicide bombing, is a result of the desire to gain social credibility within the group.”
Love for both the group and the cause, in this case the protection of the wmnmah, explains the
desire and decision to violently mobilise.

Using evidence procured through social media analysis and news coverage, three examples stand
out as illustrating the importance of offline contacts — the Coventry Cluster, the Portsmouth and
Manchester Network, and the West London Cluster.

The Data
Overview of British Fighters

Before illustrating two examples of how clusters work in facilitating travel, a brief glance at the
total number of British fighters collected provides some inferences that support the thesis and
while countering the ‘internet causality’ explanation. Of the 123 British fighters in the database
for whom information could be procured, fifty-seven fighters travelled with or knew at least one
other fighter before mobilising. This supports the thesis in two ways. First is the obvious case
that evidence of individuals travelling in group’s supports the offline interaction thesis. Second,
that information of the travel plans for the other sixty-six could not be procured through open
source methods suggests that they were not avid users of social media, thus negating the idea that
online interactions play such a crucial role. Two examples will now v be illustrated to show how
offline interactions can influence mobilisation.

The Coventry Cluster

The offline behaviour of Ali Kalantar, a foreign fighter from Coventry, chimes with the driving
thesis. In chapter one, we described the extent to which Ali Kalanta’s desire and decision to ~
mobilise were affected by his interactions with online propaganda. What appears to have been a
crucial element in his decision to mobilise, however, was his long-term friendship with two
friends from home, Rashed Amani and Mohammed Hadi, who travelled with him. Interactions
with a radical imam at a local mosque are also cited as potential influences by his family, who
perceived changes in Kalantar’s behaviour as originating from this contact.

Reports suggest that Kalantar asked to borrow his passport from his parents in order to fill out
university related documents, while asking to borrow £1000 from his brother in order to pay for
a new laptop.'** This indicates that Kalantar was not considered a risk by his loved ones, who

131 See Merari, A., ‘Social, organizational and psychological factors in suicide terrorism,’ in Bjergo, T. ed., Root
Causes of Terrorism: Myths, Realities and Ways Forward, Oxford, Routledge, 2005.
32 Taher, A., et al., ‘British jihadist who married one of the 16-year-old Manchester ‘terror twins’ is ‘killed fighting

for ISIS in Iraq’, Mail Online, December 6" 2014, accessed April 26" 2015, at
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-286352 1/British-jihadist-married-one-16-year-old-Manchester-terror-

twins-Syria-killed-fighting-ISIS-Iraq-html
27

000032

000034
Document Released Under the Access to

Infesutient RUlcaee Uru rthe lawsess erty

darifoirnation Wer rDoediiéeit aividgue en vertu
de fa Loi sur l'aceés 4 l'information

perhaps had no indication that Kalantar was in any way radicalised. This is a common theme for

foreign fighters around the world; the family of teenager Abdullah Emir, an Australian convert to

Islam who travelled to Syria and became the frontman of at least two ISIS videos, believed that

he had gone on a fishing trip. The family only became aware of his intentions when he contacted
them from Turkey, days before crossing the border into Syria.'*? oo

It also indicates the importance of offline interactions in facilitating mobilisation, rather than
irrational fanaticism. Reports suggest that Mohammed Baryalei, a known foreign fighter
recruiter in Sydney, heavily influenced Elmir’s rapid radicalisation and mobilisation.'*4 For
Kalantar, his close friendships with Amani and Hadi appear crucial in explaining his .
mobilisation. Kalantar and Amani are featured prominently in online postings, specifically

- Instagram, in which Ali refers to them as “brothers since day one” and Mohammed Hadi as a
“brother from different mother.”!°

The influence of the imam is yet to be fully understood. Reports from the family at the time
suggested that Kalantar had been ‘groomed’ by the imam, confirming that Kalantar had been
spending more time at the Mosque. "°° The full extent of these interactions on Kalantar’s desire
and decision to travel will probably never be known. However, reports from his family suggest
that they did coincide with a change in his behaviour, that he had taken more interest in Islam
and began praying regularly. Kalantar had been commenting on and sharing propaganda material
for a minimum of six months before finally leaving; that the contact with the imam was only in
the final month of this time period strengthens the idea that the relationship may have
precipitated Kalantar’s decision to make hijrah, thus highlighting the importance of offline
interactions. Similar relationships with imams have been reported by the families of men from
the Cardiff Cluster (involving brothers Aseel and Nasser Muthana, and their friend Reyaad
Khan), and for a number of men from West London including Fatlum Shalaku.

Ifthekar Jaman: Establishing a Tazkiyyah Network

One of the most illuminating examples comes from a large cluster of fighters associated with
Ifthekar Jaman, a young man from Portsmouth who travelled to Syria in May 2013.” The
trajectory of his radicalisation is largely typical. Having watched videos on YouTube about the
Syrian uprising, Jaman was told by local imams that the conflict was sectarian in nature and

. therefore not a “true” jihad. 38 Unconvinced, he researched more controversial opinions online

33 «Teen Jihadist Abdullah Elmir groomed like paedophile victim: terrorism expert’, Sydney Morning Herald,
October 22 2014, accessed on April 26" 2015, at http:/Avww.smh.com.awnational/teen-jihadist-abdullah-elmir-
groomed-like-paedophile-victim-terrorism-expert-201 41022-119x0z.html

*Raryalei had links with some of Australia’s most notorious foreign fighters, including Mohammed Elomar and
Khaled Sharouff.
135 See Appendix; Figures 22, 23.

136 Taher (2014) -

137 Maher, S., ‘From Portsmouth to Kobane: the British jihadis fighting for Isis,’ New Statesman, November 6",
2014, accessed August 26%, 2015, http:/Awww.newstatesman.com/2014/10/portsmouth-kobane.

"8 Shiraz Maher interview with Ifthekar Jaman, Skype, 2013

28
000033

000035
Document Released Under the Aecess to

Iniopeatitent Reldecsy Underline aceaas alu
de (hfdrekanted Act e Dadian! avalyué en vertu
de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

and concluded that Shia’s were a heretical sect who could not be considered real Muslims.”
Fighting them was not only permissible, but a duty. He committed himself to travelling to Syria
’ for the sake of jihad. : ‘

This was far from straightforward. Jaman lacked contacts and unsuccessfully tried to establish
links with fighters from the UK for several months. Indeed, he even reached out to a number of
charity and aid convoys that were travelling to the country in the hope they might facilitate his
transfer to a jihadist group. He was tumed down; his unfamiliarity with existing radical
structures in the real world temporarily impeded his plans until Jaman decided to travel to the
Syrian border alone and make connections there. Such innovation is generally rare, with the
majority of the fighters lacking the strength of character to take such a bold move when still
relatively young. . .

Telling his family he was enrolling on an Arabic course, Jaman flew to Antakya — a small
Turkish town close to the Syrian border ~ and then took a bus to Reyhanli. It was on this journey
that Jaman met a man from Aleppo entirely by chance and revealed his desire to wage jihad in
Syria. He helped Jaman cross the Syrian border and took him to Aleppo where he had hoped to
join Jabhat al-Nusra. “I looked around and I saw them raising the black flag everywhere,” Jaman
told Shiraz Maher, senior fellow at the ICSR. “People think it’s the flag of al-Qaeda but, no, it’s
the flag of Islam.”'*° Once in Aleppo Jaman was taken to a Jabhat al-Nusra recruitment office
but was tumed away. Again, Jaman’s lack of contact with existing radical networks made it

’ difficult for him to win the trust of groups fighting on the ground. No one could provide him
with tazkiyyah however, and thus his sincerity remained unknown. Despite his best efforts, the
lack of tazkiyyah meant Jaman was unable to join Jabhat al-Nusra. “I got teary. I was devastated.
This is what I’d come for,” Jaman said.'*! Islamic State was less concerned with Jaman’s status
and let him join without a reference. This is characteristic for the group, which has lower barriers
to entry than many other militant organisations in Syria.

Jaman used the Internet to maintain regular and intense contact with a group of five friends in
Portsmouth to whom he had grown particularly close in the year preceding his migration to
Syria: his cousin, Asad Uzzaman; Muhammad Hamidur Rahman; Mamunur Roshid; Mashudur
Choudhury; and, Mehdi Hassan. Jaman used Skype and WhatsApp to conduct private
discussions with his friends about his experiences in Syria. Jaman encouraged his friends to join
him and offered detailed instructions of what clothing to bring, how much money to carry, and
logistics for crossing the border. Moreover, Jaman could now offer his friends a smoother and
more considered plan for entering territory held by Islamic State by giving them tazkiyyah. This
is the real significance of the offline peer-to-peer relationship here. By offering his friends a
greater degree of information and knowledge, Jaman was able to lower the emotional and
psychological barriers to participation. Having arranged tazkiyyah for the five Portsmouth men,
Jaman gave them highly specific information about where to travel in Turkey in order to meet
trusted fixers and transporters who would facilitate their transfer into Syria. In the event, he was
even able to arrange for a truck to pick them up near the border.

159 “This is the duty on me” — exclusive interview with 23-year-old British jihadi in Syria”, BBC Newsnight,
YouTube, November 20", 2013, accessed August 26%, 2015, https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=BPTSw-cC4UQ.
140 Shiraz Maher interview with Ifthekar Jaman, Skype, 2013

141 Thid. (2013)

29

000034

000036
Document Released Under the Access to

InfogevatanrRétemesa Undo rine ladedss t6'tu
darfohnation| Rerrseclingit aNifgué en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information -

Meanwhile, in Manchester, another group of three men — Anil Khalil Raoufi, Mohammed Azzam
Javeed, and Abu Qa’qaa (this is his nom de guerre; his real name is unknown) — were also being
radicalised, in part, by Jaman’s public propaganda. Abu Qa’qaa published a long explanation of
his decision to travel to Syria in which he revealed that the group had been closely monitoring
events on social media and had grown increasingly angry at the situation. They reconciled
themselves to travelling but, much like Jaman, were unsure of how to reach Syria safely. After
discussing it amongst themselves, the group were uninspired but decided to “rely on Allah
alone,” and resolved to make contacts whilst in Turkey. To this end, Qa’qaa admits to having
been inspired by the teachings of the al-Qaeda ideologue Anwar al-Awlaki who had told his
followers, “hijrah [migration] is like j jumping ¢ off a cliff and not knowing what to expect at the
bottom.”

Unbeknown to Qa’qaa, both Raoufi and Javeed had decided not to delay their journey and
bought airline tickets to Turkey. Although Qa’qaa did not have enough money for the journey,
he was supported by Raoufi and Javeed who paid for his ticket. This incident again demonstrates

_the importance of peers in enabling their friends when at the tipping point between radicalisation
and mobilisation. Once in Turkey the trio began reaching out to fighters in the hope of receiving
tazkiyyah. It was impossible. Unknown to anyone inside the country, no one was prepared to
vouch for them.

When the group contacted [fthekar Jaman he was similarly unprepared to offer tazkiyyah for

individuals who were entirely unknown to him, but engineered a plan to help the Manchester © '
trio. He told them to wait in Turkey until his friends from Portsmouth arrived (who, by

coincidence, were scheduled to arrive just a few days later). They would meet and vet the

Manchester men. If they approved, Jaman would provide them with tazkiyyah.

In the event, the Portsmouth cluster was sufficiently reassured by the Manchester trio that they
advised Ifthekar Jaman to provide tazkiyyah. 142 He did, and days later all the men were taken into
Syria. This episode underscores the importance of offline interactions when winning trust
because of the potential for ambiguity when solely interacting with others online. For the
Manchester cluster this was vital and a necessary precursor to their arrival in Syria.

‘2 See Appendix; Figure 24
, 30

000035

000037
Document Released Under the Access to

InfpgaurienRee had! ond thuladesee yertu
dartohfiatbn martoce lintiTeningue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Conclusion — Refocusing the Policy Debate

This report has attempted to provide a more nuanced understanding of the recruitment of British
nationals to the ‘Islamic State.’ It has had two related objectives; to make clear the distinctions
between radicalisation and recruitment with reference to the desires, decisions and. actions of the _
recruit; and to provide a more nuanced understanding of the influence of the Internet on the
mobilisation process as a whole. Without such distinctions, the investigations into the serious

and complex issue of preventing foreign fighter recruitment devolves into misunderstandings

that not only affect academic accuracy but, as has been highlighted, public policy.

The ‘Internet causality’ narrative has heavily affected the debate regarding ‘the roles and
responsibilities of governments and Internet companies. The narrative is at the heart of a
- conundrum, summarised by former Google executive Andrew McCaughlin in the following way:

““You want to live in a world where people have access to news — in other words,
documentary evidence of what is actually happening. And an ISIS video of hostages being
beheaded is both an act of propaganda and is itself a fact. And so if you're a platform, -
you don’t want to suppress the facts. On the other hand, d, you don’t want to participate in
advancing propaganda. And there is the conundrum. ”*

The situation has undoubtedly become more complex since the time of Osama Bin Laden, whose
messages were smuggled out of the remote locations they were filmed in and couriered to Al
Jazeera. Seeing the Internet ‘as just a platform, even if exaggerated for satirical effect, seems
increasingly disingenuous. Even Bin Laden acknowlédged this difference, stating in a letter
found in his compound that “The wide-scale spread of jihadist ideology, especially on the
Internet, and the tremendous number of young people who frequent the Jihadist Web sites [are] a
major achievement for jihad.”!5

If the freedom of speech versus security debate is not being placed in emotive, Orwellian
language, it is invariably placed in black and white terms. For Wallace, who argues that Twitter’s
indirect promotion of violence and calls to violence is the equivalent of providing material
support to terrorist organisations, concludes that if Internet companies are not willing to be part
of the solution, they are part of the problem.'“6 Twitter dissents by arguing that a distinction must
be made between platform and content. Colin Crowell, the firm’s head of global public policy,
claims that the “key thing...is to recognize [Twitter’s] role as the provider of this open platform
for free expression . . . to recognize that that speech is not our own” and that a duty to respect
and to defend those voices on the platform, ” is crucial. “The platform of any debate is neutral.
The platform doesn’t take sides.”'*’ The issue can be simplified down to philosophical and

“e Higham, S., Nakashima, E., ‘Why the Islamic State leaves tech companies torn between free speech and «

security,’ The Washington Post, July 16", 2015, accessed August 26%, 2015,
https: e d/na 2 nic-states-embrace-of-soci edia-puts-tech-

 

companies-in-a-bind/2015/07/15/0e562404-169c-1 15 $063
61410da94eb1_story htm] ?postshare=773 1437061049526
1 Tid. (2015)

145 Thid. (2015)

146 Thid, (2015

7 Tid, 2015)

31

000036

000038
Document Released Under the Access to

Infoxspatiand ebidaesy WRHbP ihe aueed Yertu
eititdrtdtlin AGEPRScLuHGAE GUS en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information

,

practical considerations; first, should Internet companies curb the free speech of individuals by
removing content? If yes, to what extent it is feasible to do so? .

The problems with framing the issue in this way are profound, however. First, nobody wins; this
report has illustrated that keeping the material online will undoubtedly have an effect on recruits,
yet taking it down is also flawed. Not only is the process of removing Twitter accounts only
marginally effective in reducing the overall noise of jihadist activity, it is not resource efficient
while preventing concerned parties such as governments, academics and security analysts from
learning about the conflict and studying its broader trends.'*

While this report has highlighted the importance of this debate, the Internet’s limitations have
also been illustrated, with offline dynamics appearing crucial in the actual physical movement to
the region. The Internet debate, while important, appears increasingly abstract and detached from
the reality of how the mobilisation process works. Some of the attention must be refocused, then,
on the traditional factors and mechanisms of mobilisation that exit in society rather than online.

Extremism, both its acts and ideas, can only be countered with civic engagement. As Nemr
notes, facts don’t matter to extremists.'“” Unpalatable ideas need to be made marginalised and
made taboo for them not take root and spread, and this requires a civic, values based approach.
Grassroots campaigns that take a holistic approach to countering extremism, that have a granular
understanding of the dynamics on a local level, need to be empowered. An example would be the
Active Change Foundation, based in East London. Started by Hanif Qadir, an ex-radical who
fought in Afghanistan at the start of the ‘War on Terror’, the organisation has had great success
in ingraining ideas of civic responsibility and positive values, such as leadership, in young
people. The programmes they offer help those participating in learning valuable life skills, but
also become a hub of values that slowly disseminate into the community at large. The success of
these programs relies on trust, which needs time to build. The crisis in the Middle East, and thus
the steady flow of radicalised migrants travelling to the region, shows no sign of abating. Unless
governments take a proactive approach, the physical and political repercussions could be drastic.

 

"8 See Berger, J.M., Morgan, J., ‘ISIS Twitter Census’, The Brookings Project on U.S. Relations with the Islamic
World, No, 20, March 2015.
“© Nemr (2015). ,

32

000037

000039
Q

Document Released Under the Access to
IrRacument Released Wider thevApesertocrtu
dinfarmation AstLDogument disulaye en vertu
de la Loi sur I'aceés a l'information
Growing understanding of user security on mobile devices, encryption and general security awareness.
Interconnectivity and utility of different platforms, leveraged by extremists to convey their messages
and coordinate.
A malleable environment, in which terrorist actors can easily move from.one or more platforms to
another, more permissive platform(s). —
A shift by terrorist organizations to encrypted platforms, such as Telegram and WhatsApp, which create
additional difficulties for surveillance, interception and counter-messaging.
Changing real world environment, with the Islamic State under pressure in Iraq and Syria how will
communication/propaganda initiatives and networks change? Incitement to violence at home likely to
increase, with foreign fighter flows greatly diminished.
Spread of production and dissemination techniques pioneered or greatly improved upon by the Islamic
State to other similar organizations — Al Qaeda Central, Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, Al Shabaab, Boko Haram
etc.
Open Source Jihad: creation of extremist material not only by centralized and affiliated terrorist group
media hubs, but by individual activists who create  supportive/inciting materials in a number of
languages.
Different narratives promoted by radical groups, not only the Islamic State, that are place, culture, issue,
ideology and event specific.

- Counter Messaging:

o
oO

Ongoing Efforts:

Does counter messaging work?

Difficulties assessing the impact, the goal is to dissuade individuals from being radicalized/joining an
organization/carrying out an attack. Difficult to measure events/actions that didn’t take place as a result
of counter messaging.

Difficulties around a concerted counter messaging strategy among government agencies/departments in
the same country, let alone between countries or among member states of International organizations.
This is not to mention other similar difficulties in public-private partnerships.

No agreed upon strategies/metrics/prominent public initiatives focused on determining the
effectiveness of counter messaging campaigns/programs. __

Countries, their institutions and partners are much slower to react to terrorist content than terrorist
groups create and disseminate content. Because of this and changing geo-political/conflict/other
circumstances terrorist narratives, messaging strategies and dissemination tactics change rapidly:
Counter messaging needs to become more nimble and proactive/reactive.

. Lack of credibility among target audience(s) regarding both government and their counter-messaging

partners: what should the role of government be in counter messaging? Which partners are to be
chosen? What does credibility look like?

Mishandling of pervious counter-messaging campaigns. (ex. Think Again Turn Away): what are the

lessons learned and how can they be applied to future initiatives?

.

- US Department of State Global Engagement Center (Global Engagement Center)

°

°
°

Q

oO
°

Replaced the Center for Strategic Counterterrorism Communications, charged with coordinating US
counterterrorism messaging to foreign audiences.

Focused on “partner-driven messaging and data analytics”

Partners include: NGOs, schools, young peopie, social/civil society leadership, religious leadership,
governments and others

Leverages data analytics to understand dynamics, guide and inform messaging efforts and measure
effectiveness

Develop and procure unbranded content that is made available to global partners

Interagency engagement: US national security agencies that operate in the information space

- Private Sector Engagement in Responding to the Use of the Internet and ICT for Terrorist Purposes (ICT4Peace
and UNCT ED).

ao0c002

000004
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
InPeaurient Reledeed Undardheyecess toertu

ddntormeation Aatd osumentdivagué en vertu
de fa Loi sur f'accés a l'information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)
’ From: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)
Sent: Wednesday, March 16, 2016 5:56 PM
To: , Giroux2, Denis {PS/SP)
Subject: FW: Timing
Attachments: Canadian Update Document.doog Canadian foreign fighter in Syria.docx

s.19(1)

From: Shiraz Maher (alto

Sent: Tuesday, January 21, :

Ta: Kubicek, Brett ,

Subject: Re: Timing

Hi Brett - document attached.

If you read the ‘update’ document first, then you'll see why I've attached the ‘foreign fighter’ document.
Please let me know if this is suitable otherwise I can rework it as need be.

‘

Best,
Shiraz.
On 21 January 2014 21:26, Kubicek, Brett <Brett. Kubicek@ps-sp.ge.ca> ‘wrote:

Hello again Shiraz,

Sorry to nudge but big boss’ office here is looking to set up a briefing, so just wanted to check when you might
be able to send that wee update, so I can get back to them on timing...

Will you be able to hit send soon? Thanks in advance!
Best,

Brett.

Brett Kubicek, PhD
Manager, Research and Academic Relations } Gestionnaire, Recherche et relations académiques

Portfolio Affairs and Communications Branch | Secteur des affaires du portefeuille et des communications

000038

000040
Document Released Under the Access to

IntdorntentReleaeod UndébrinalAdoess to'tu

ddifolmation|Act:6beclmentabielgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Tel: 613.991.7779 | Fax: 613.954.3131 | brett. kubicek@ps-sp.ge.ca

000039

000041
Document Released Under the Access to

nosumbanretbadeeruneer tina wussstovertu
Witdtrhatien Act? DscarhOhe UIVAGUS on vertu

de la Loi sur faccés a l'information

 

DOCUMENT: Ad hoc progress update

PROJECT TITLE: _ The Syrian Conflict: the evolution of al Qaeda and
relate militant movements after the Arab Spring

PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATORS: Peter Neumann
Shiraz Maher

INSTITUTION: International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation
(ICSR), King’s College London

DATE: . 23 January 2014

 

BACKGROUND

* This is an academic research project conducted by the International Centre
for the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR), King’s College London.

« The project is funded by Public Safety Canada through the Kanishka Project.
« The project formally commenced on 14 October 2013.

= As this document shows, the project has been formally run for only 3 months
during which time we have generated a high degree of activity and laid the
foundations on which a significant amount of research will be built.

PROIECT PROGRESSTODATE .

* ICSR has organised, and maintains, a database of Western foreign fighters,
sympathisers, and their networks. This database lists:
© 34separate data points per fighter
o Over 300 sympathisers, supporters, and fighters
o 125 confirmed foreign fighters

», ICSR maintains separate databases of ‘martyrs’ or deaths in Syria which
currently records over 1,100 deaths.

« These databases have already generated significant insights which have been
shared with partners across multiple agencies and countries (an appendix of
relevant meetings is attached).

000040

000042
Document Released Under the Access to
'DeanndarRelbabar under te deuesaoertu

datonhation AaoBecuhielt aealigue en vertu
de {a Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information :

=" We have been offered, and are using, the pro bono services of Palantir, a
software company which allows us to, inter alia, produce sophisticated
network analysis maps of networks/organisations/individuals who are
actively recruiting to, and promoting, the Syrian jihad.

= As stated in the original project proposal, ICSR has also secured ethical
approval from the King’s College London Research Ethics Committee. This
ensures our research is guided and overseen by a rigorous ethical framework
approved by the College.

= We have developed a working hypothesis of what we believe to be the key
drivers and dynamics of radicalisation behind the current influx of Western -
Muslims into this conflict. These findings have been shared extensively with
participants in some. of our meetings {including with a number of |
stakeholders in Canada).

OFFICIAL PUBLIC ENGAGEMENTS
« Shiraz Maher was called to give evidence to the House of Commons, Home
Affairs Select Committee on “counter-terrorism.” This evidence session

related specifically to the flow of British/European foreign fighters into Syria,
and the potential long-term implications of the phenomenon.

® Shiraz Maher was called to give evidence to the House of Commons, Foreign
Affairs Committee on “the crisis in Syria and the impact upon its neighbours”
in December 2013.

PUBLISHED PRELIMINARY RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
® Alist of published preliminary research findings is given below.

= In April 2013, ICSR was the first research organisation to provide a credible
and comprehensive estimate of the number of foreign fighters engaged in the
Syrian conflict. (Our numbers were confirmed and adopted by several

governments and the EU's Counterterrorism Coordinator). Please note: this
_was a research finding published/investigated before the current project

was launched.

« In October 2013, we published an overview of British foreign fighters in
Syria, outlining their profiles and motivations.

« In November 2013, we documented a number of individual cases
(here and here) of British foreign fighters in Syria, revealing that a much
higher number than previously known had died in battle. (The Foreign and
Commonwealth Office subsequently launched an official probeinto the
issue).

000041

000043
s.13(1)(a)

s.15(1) - Int'l

Document Released Under the Access to

Te TE EE

de la Loi sur l'accés 4 meant

That same month, we also published a list af urgent questions and concerns,
which we believe Government needs to address in order to mitigate potential
future risks from returning fighters. (These questions have since been put to
senior government officials by Members of Parliament and the Home Affairs

Select Committee).

In December 2013, we published a new estimate, concluding that -- by then --
up to 11,000 non-Syrians (up to 2,000 Western Europeans) had gone to fight

in Syria.

 

Not all research findings are published immediately, not least because many
of them relate to fast moving events - some of which may involve ongoing or
intended acts of criminality. In some circumstances, the immediate
publishing of research findings would also compromise ongoing research. In
such cases salient information is always shared with relevant parties
as /when appropriate in a private fashion. This section outlines such cases.

 

We have uncovered information relating to the use of charities. as a
smokesc e figh i

 

By March/April 2014, ICSR will release a research paper on the networks
that are involved in facilitating and supporting European foreign fighter
travel into Syria. .

By March/April 2014, ICSR will release a research paper on the networks
that are involved in facilitating and supporting North American foreign
fighter travel into Syria.

In the summer we will launch a public website as a central academic resource
for information about the conflict. We are currently exploring the most
practical and impactful way to do this.

 
 

13(1\(a)

:. $.15(1) - Intl

000042

000044
Document Released Under the Access to

InfoocatiemfRbiddesy Underlined aueess tatu
dettidrriation AcePbeduiniennavargue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

* A series of further deliverables are scheduled for the latter half of 2014
including a monograph and collected volume of essays.

* We also intend to visit Canada later in the year and share our research
findings in person with relevant government departments, agencies,
politicians, and other partners.

000043

000045
Document Released Under the Access to
Déeundit RéwaddddindentheAlmess tovertu
thidentationAbht Decantiatdivalgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

 

Royal Canadian Mounted Police

Canada Border Services Agency

Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre (FINTRAC)
Canadian Department of National Defence

Defence Research and Development Canada.

Justice Canada .

United States

FBI

Pentagon Joint Staff - . .

House of Representatives, Counterterrorism and Intelligence Subcommittee
House of Representatives, Homeland Security Subcommittee

House of Representatives, Terrorism, Non-Proliferation, and Trade

Subcommittee

United Kingd

The Security Service (Mi5)

Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC)

Home Affairs Committee

Foreign Affairs Committee

Metropolitan Police Service, Counter-Terrorism Command

Metropolitan Police Service, Community liaison team (Syria) .

West Midlands Police, Counter-Terrorism Command

Association of Chief Police Officers ~ Terrorism and Allied Matters (ACPO-TAM)

Charity Commission

Germany

Federal Intelligence Service (BND), Bundesnachrichtendienst

Belgiu

Belgian State Security Service (VSSE)
Federal Counter-Terrorism Unit, Police

000044

* 000046
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Pages 45 to / a 46
are withheld pursuant to section
sont retenues en vertu de l'article

19(1)

of the Access to Information
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

000047
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
lnbuadarreadeacuneetida wlcuuse tovertu
Weiderhat Gn Aka pERscar HE URIS en vertu
de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: : Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Sent: Wednesday, March 16, 2016 5:59 PM

To: , Giroux2, Denis (PS/SP)

Subject: FW: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London
Attachments: Canada activity update.docx; Canada Extension Document 1.docx
Brett Kubicek, PhD

Manager, Research and Academic Relations | Gestionnaire, Recherche et relations académiques
Portfolio Affairs and Communications Branch | Secteur des affaires du portefeuille et des communications
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Tel: 613.991.7779 | Fax: 613.954.3131 | brett. kubicek@canada.ca

From: Shiraz Maher (nat a
Sent: Wednesday, March 11, :

To: Lively, Cassandra
Ce: Partington, Nell; Kubicek, Brett; Martin, Connie
Subject: Re: Follow-up on Today's Call - Kings College London

8.19(1)

Hello all, sorry, getting sign-off has been like trying to juggle water. I attach two documents - Cassandra, can
you please let me know what, if anything, further you require (I feel like I'm missing something).

On 23 February 2015 at 21:57, Lively, Cassandra <Cassandra.Lively@ps-sp.pc.ca> wrote:

Hello Shiraz,
It was very nice to meet you via telephone today!

As requested, below you will find the information we'll need to issue your 2014-15 funds, and address
amending your agreement:

1- An Activity Report covering the period October 1, 2013 — December 31, 2014. This report does not need to
be anything fancy, but must include the following info:

e 6 Abrief description of events related to the Project during the period covered by the report;
e The activities completed and results obtained with respect to the objectives of the project;
e Successes and difficulties encountered by project staff in achieving the objectives of the

Project; and

000047

000048
Document Released Under the Access to
[DiscumbnnReteasec-Undertthe Weegserteertu
dnfdarhation Adi ddiacaientdivaigueé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a information

s.13(1)(a)
s.15(1) - Int'l

¢ A brief description of the activities to be completed after your activity report, and any
expected changes to your project’s work plan. (This is taken from section C1, in Annex C of
your original agreement).

2- On the financial side of things, we need to know if you expect to expend the total Public Safety Canada
contribution to your project for the 2014-15 fiscal year, before March 31, 2015 ($136,561). If you do expect to
spend all of this money, and may require additional funds to fulfill the objectives of your project, please let us
know and we can explore the possibility of amending your agreement to provide additional funds. Or, if you
will be unable to expend all of the money, we could explore the possibility of moving those funds into the next
fiscal year, and amending your agreement to extend the duration.

3- Either way, we need to update the deliverables table in your original contribution agreement (attached for
easy reference above, and I’ve also attached the previous amendment to your project budget). Our finance folks
will not allow us to release payment if a deliverable has not been completed before the end date listed in Annex
A, in the project work plan. I’ve copied and pasted the table below, if you could propose any necessary changes
in wording and completion dates, that would be great. Please feel free to do this as a reply to this email, and
highlight any changes in a different font color © Brett will get back to us on the restricted briefing paper issues
as soon as possible.

Project Description/Work Plan:

s.13(1)(a)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deliverable Clientele Outputs Date 8.15(1) - Int'l
Public Briefing Government 5,000 word paper to be published | 03/14
paper “Western officials, and disseminated by ICSR —
foreign academics, media
fighters/Syria”

Canadian 5,000 word paper produced 06/14

government exclusively for Canadian

officials government
Online resource Government Searchable section of ICSR 07/14
“Foreign officials, website, to be maintained
fighters/Syria” academics, media__| throughout the project’s duration
Research General public, 75,000 word monograph to be 12/14
monograph government published by major academic
“Syrian Militant officials, publisher
Moveme academics, media
Workshops and Government Minimum of half a dozen 2/15
briefings on Syria | officials, meetings with presentation and
in Ottawa, Canada | academics, media . | discussion of key findings
Special journal General public, 20,000 word edited conference 03/15
issue government publication, or special issue of

officials, Democracy and Security

academics, media

2
000048

000049
&.19(1) Document Released Under the Access to

infesaniian Aslédeea unast da wuesarwertu
dpfarkritit Ager Boauritdar aivuigté on vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a finformation
© An attempt to establish guidelines for private-public partnerships in addressing the availability of
extremist content online; includes the develop of tools and mechanisms to counter terrorist and violent
extremist narratives.
© Findings and guidelines from which will be presented to the Security Council, likely this year.
- UKand Swiss Governments, supported by the institute for Strategic Dialogue and Democratic Control of Armed
Forces, have sought to review government best practices. (Globa! Counterterrorism Forum)
o Efforts focus on communications (challenge the appeal of propaganda) and co-governance (init the
availability and accessibility of propaganda online)
o Outcomes document, including recommendations and next steps to be submitted March 2017 and
include:
= Impact — better understand the impact of efforts in countering and removing propaganda
‘= Scale -takedown. measures and counter narrative programs are too slow, operate at too small of
a scale to effectively challenge propaganda (see Samir Kassir Foundation study below) ,
= Future — the threat of terrorism is diversifying and technology is evolving, need to change/adapt
communications and be forward looking. ( Note: While the threat of other groups using such
technology is diversifying, it’s also just starting to be focused on now that the Islamic State is
losing ground. Studies such as those on Telegram and other platforms/online strategies by other
groups are important here)
- UNcurrently developing a comprehensive framework on CVE strategic communications with a focus on counter

narratives (UNCTITF)
© Proposal to be presented at the Security Council April 12, 2017.

Measuring Effectiveness:
- Leveraging social media platform analytics to follow the reach and resonance of counter-messaging
initiatives/conducting qualitative and quantitative studies of response to the counter-messaging campaign
Extre ialogue Report).

© Tracking both quantitative and qualitative measurements to ensure not only that the initiative is
reaching a large audience, but that it is also reaching and resonating with the appropriate audience.

© Incorporating both positive and negative perceptions of the counter-messaging campaign into best
practices (can be done by analyzing comments on social media and those related to news
articles/stories/information about the campaign).

‘o Creating a feedback loop in order to constantly improve counter-messaging narratives, engagement

strategies, distribution patterns, and the use of advertising funds, where applicable.

© Overcoming hesitation and unwillingness of counter-messaging organizations/creators to measure the
effectiveness of these i in Itiatives.

- Producing on-the-ground/offline studies to measure the reach and resonance of counter-messaging initiatives

s.19(1) (Samir Kassir Foundation) —

° " —_ —_ ae must also be quantitatively and qualitatively measured. While

resources are put towards the creation of counter-messaging, not enough is done to measure the
effectiveness of such initiatives. Furthermore, engaging with at-risk communities (the target audience)
can also set the foundation for/feed into effective campaigns:

© The study Reception and Perception of Radical Messages involved interviews with Sunni individuals from
communities in Lebanon deemed most at risk of radicalization and with Syrian refugees living near
Beirut.

o Finding #5: “the potent production value of radical messages was more pronounced when compared to
counter-radical messaging as the content is more attractive than the messages preaching true
religiosity, moderation and tolerance because the style and tone of the moderate messages are highly
boring and monotonous.”

 

000003

000005
Document Released Under the Access to
Devenir Retéadeaquraertne Alwmase tovertu
defderhation Abe? iscarhentt divaliueé en vertu
de fa Loi sur l'accés a l'information

I think that covers everything, please let me know if you have any questions about any of this.

Thank you for your time,

Cassandra Lively, MPA

Project Manager | Gestionnaire de projet
Kanishka Project | Projet Kanishka

Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Telephone: 613-990-8417
E-mail | Courriel: Cassandra.Lively@ps-sp.ge.ca

Building a Safe and Resilient Canada

Batir un Canada sécuritalre ot résilient

000049

000050
Document Released Under the Access to

lneoNdaAt Refeaber wind meuldueanyertu
datsriatiow Aecrescubtelt'amaligie en vertu
de la Loi sur f'aceés a Finformation .

ICSR uppaTe, MaRcH 2015

This has been one of the busiest times for ICSR since its inception in 2008, particularly
due to events stemming from the Syria/Iraq conflict impacting heavily on our research
into the Islamic State and the. accompanying foreign fighter trend. In particular, the
declaration of ‘the new caliphate’ by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the violent progression of
Islamic State’s presence into Iraq, the execution of journalists at the hands of a British
foreign fighters and recent terrorist attacks in Ottawa, Sydney and Paris have all directly
related to ICSR’s workload.

KEY PUBLICATIONS
REPORTS

WHERE THE INTERNET ENDS: THE LIMITS OF ONLINE RADICALISATION IN MOBILISING SYRIAN
FOREIGN FIGHTER (forthcoming, April 2015)

THE ‘FIXER NETWORK’: HOW FOREIGN FIGHTERS JOIN MILITANT MOVEMENTS IN SYRIA
(forthcoming, April/May 2015)

THE NEW JIHADISM: A GLOBAL SNAPSHOT (DECEMBER zy:

 

#GreenBirds: Measuring Importance and Influence in Syrian Foreign Fighter
, Networks s (Apri 2014):

 

INSIGHTS

ICSR and BBC Publish Global Survey of Jihadist Violence (December 2014):

‘The New Jihadism: A Global Snapshot’ is project created by collaboration between ICSR
and the BBC, with the aim of documenting all fatal jihadist attacks for the month of
November 2014 from across the globe. These findings were subsequently analyzed to
provide insight into the tactical capabilities of the groups involved, and the geographical
distribution of these events for an accompanying report.

 

ICSR Insight: Guardian and ICSR Document British fighters killed in Syria/Iraq —
Conflict (October 2014):

ICSR collaborate with the Guardian newspaper to produce an interactive database of
British fighters with islamic State who have been killed in the Syria/Iraq conflict.

 

000050

000051
Document Released Under the Access to

colotuu ko Boe

dhe Kusese yey
pe erOL ae en vertu

de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

ICSR Advises U.N. Security Council on Foreign Fighters (September 2014):

Professor Peter Neumann acts as senior advisor to the U.S. Mission and the U.N. Security
Council, briefing them on the scale and nature of the foreign fighter movement in order
to inform the development of domestic legislation.

 

ICSR Insight ~ Offering Foreign Fighters in Syria and Iraq a Way Out (August 2014):
An update of the Syria team’s research including numbers of foreign fighters in Syria
and Iraq, a discussion of the motivations behind this jihadist movement in reference to

British policy and suggestions for the consequences that might face these fighters upon -

their return.

 

Who Inspires the Syrian Foreign Fighters? (March 2014):

The Syria team give a brief summary ahead of the launch of their #GreenBirds report in
April 2014, discussing the impact of social media and naming highly influential figures
around foreign fighter networks.

 

What To Do About British Foreign Fighters in Syria (January 2014):

A synopsis of evidence given in front of the House of Commons Home Affairs Select

Committee, including advice on how to empower security agencies and reconfiguration
of the Channel Project.

 

Up to 11,000 Foreign Fighters in Syria; Steep Rise Among Western Europeans
(December 2014):
An update on numbers monitored by ICSR’s database as well as specific information on

donor countries and patterns. —

 

Syrian Foreign Fighters: 10 Questions for Government (November 2013):
Peter Neumann poses ten questions to the FCO and other arms of the British
Government on the subject of radicalization in the Syrian conflict.

ICSR Identifies Briton Killed prin in sya (Ne ovember 20 13):

 

British Foreign Fighters in Syria (October 2013): ‘

Insight provides a comprehensive and updated profile of the ‘British Foreign Fighter’,
discusses possible motivations and practical arrangements for travel to Syria, as well as
detailing the affiliation of currently active groups.

000051

* 000052
Document Released Under the Access to

Alin RsléaesauneBt Hever ye
ee a ie a on vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

SELECTED OP-EDS

From Portsmouth to Kobane: the British jihadis fighting for Isis (November, 2014)
A long essay examining the trajectory of a cluster of young men from both Portsmouth
and Manchester who migrated to Syria and joined Islamic State. This story is based on
extensive, in-depth interviews with the fighters themselves to better understand their
motivations and experiences.

‘From Bin Laden to Isis: Why the roots of jthadi ideology run deep in Britain’
(September.2014}

An examination of how and why Islamic State is so capable of marketing itself to some
young British Muslims.

 

‘Blowback: Who are ISIS and why are young Brits fighting with them?’ (June 2014):
An extensive overview of recent territorial gains made by ISIS in Iraq and the
implications of this mobilization for renewed sectarian warfare, the foreign fighter
phenomenon and jihad! g group patitics

 

‘Analyzing the ISIS “Twitter Storm’ (June 2014):

Shiraz Maher & Joseph Carter dissect the #AllEyesonISIS social media storm using
Palantir Torch technology for War on the Rocks blog, shedding light on the jihadi
twitter-sphere in terms of social network analysis.

‘Suspects into Collaborators’ (April 2014) ;
Peter Neumann argues that Assad has himself to blame

‘Taking radicalised children from their parents is a dangerous idea’ (March 2014):
Shiraz Maher discusses the implications of comments made by London Mayor Boris
Johnson on plans to remove radicalized children from their family environment, arguing
that Parents can rembody the principal antidote to extremist views.

 

000052

000053
Document Released Under the Access to

Ertan Serr AN OMS ono

~ de la Loi sur f'accés a l'information

MEETINGS WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS

OFFICIAL PUBLIC ENGAGEMENTS WITH GOVERNMENT

Leader of Her Majesty's Oppesition, Rt Hon Ed Miliband (March 2015)
Shiraz Maher and Peter Neumann advised the Leader of Her Majesty's Opposition, Rt
Hon Ed Miliband, about policy and intervention | options relating to the Syrian

‘ conflict

White House Summit (February 2015)
Peter Neumann participated in the White House Summit on Countering Violent
Extremism and gave a speech on the topic of foreign fighters in Syria.

Munich Security Conference (January 2015)
Peter Neumann participated in the Munch Security Conference where ICSR released

updated figures for the number of foreign fighters believed to be in Syria.

Briefing Norwegian Prime Minister (January 2015)
Peter Neumann was part of an academic delegation which advised the Norwegian

‘Prime Minister about the threat of returning fighters from the Syrian conflict.

Swedish Democrats (January 2015)
Shiraz Maher advised the Swedish Democrats about passing legislation to deal with

the threat from foreign fighters.

10 Downing Street Policy unit (numerous meetings, September 2014 - Present)
Both Peter Neumann and Shiraz Maher have repeatedly been invited to 10 Downing
Street to advice the Prime Minister’s policy unit on security and counter-terrorism
measures relating to the Syrian conflict.

Deputy Prime Minister's Policy Unit (numerous meetings, September 2014 -

Present)
Shiraz Maher has repeatedly consulted with the Deputy Prime Minister's policy unit

to discuss the forthcoming counter;terrorism Bill in parliament.

Shadow Cabinet (numerous meetings, September 2014 - Present)

Peter Neumann has repeatedly met with the shadow cabinet to discuss aspects of
the proposed counter-terrorism Bill, and has also advised on security issues relating
to the rise of jihadist groups in Syria/Iraq.

PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEES

Intelligence and Security Committee (November 2014) .
Peter Neumann gave oral evidence to the Intelligence and Security Committee in
parliament regarding returnees from the Syrian conflict. .

House of Commons Defence Committee (October 2014)
Shiraz Maher was invited to give evidence to the Defence Affairs Committee

regarding foreign fighters in Syria.

House of Commons Home Affairs Committee (January 2014)
Shiraz Maher gave oral evidence given to the UK Home Affairs Committee on the

000053
000054
Document Released Under the Access to

$.13(1)(a) DéournditiRabtas8ddimonthivibpesetovertu
' . , infdrniation AthtBecunianbdhmulgud en vertu
s.15(1) - Int'l . de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

subject of the Syrian foreign fighter movement. This evidence, along with
intelligence provided by ICSR, featured prominently in the Home Affairs
Committee’s 17% annual counter-terrorism report of 2013/2014. :

m0 ct/cmhafi

    

      

- House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee (December 2013)
Shiraz Maher gave oral evidence to the Foreign Affairs Committee on the topic of
“The crisis in Syria and the impact upon its neighbours.”

H A WDA

 
 
 

 
  
 

INTERNATIONAL BODIES & GOVERNMENTS

United Nations Security Council (September 2014) ;
Peter Neumann served as a Senior Advisor to the United States Mission and the UN

Security Council on Syrian foreign fighters.

Embassies of Israel, Australia, Canada, United States, Japan, Norway, Germany
. (various meetings, August 2014 - Present}

Various members of our team have, at different times, met with and advised

representatives from all of the governments listed above. In many cases, this has been in

multiple meetings.
MISCELLANEOUS PUBLIC MEETINGS

- In March, the Syria team attended a meeting with the Home Affairs Committee on
the subject of foreign fighters in Syria, the threat they may pose to UK national
security and projections for future policy development. ICSR also provide vital
information to the Metropolitan Police, Yorkshire Police and West Midlands Police
regarding these issues, as well as sharing insight on the path of foreign fighters to
Syria by aid convoy with the UK Charity Commission. ,

- The ICSR Syria team has met on numerous occasions with members of the Canadian
government since September 2013, including; Canadian Security Intelligence
Service, Canadian Public Safety board, Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs and
International Trade, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Canada Border Services
Agency, FINTRAC and the Department of National Defence.

- In July 2014, ICSR met with the UK Ministry of Defense to discuss and advise
methods for collecting and analyzing open-source data on foreign fighters from the
West. ,

- Peter Neumann conducted a series of meetings in New York and Washington D.C.
with the Truman Security Network, Department of Homeland Security, State
Department, and SOCOM (Special Operations Command). 5.13(1}(a)

5,15{1) - Int'l

  

000054

000055
s.13(1){a)
s.15(1) - Int'l

Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Page 55
is withheld pursuant to sections
est retenue en vertu des articles

13(1)(a), 15(41) - int'l

of the Access to Information
de la Loi sur I'accés a I'information

000056
Document Released Under the Access to

InfdDocilimert Released nel tHluAGcHaY tatu
de lafoninatintiavetssDotinisntaialigué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

SELECTED PUBLIC EVENTS

We have spoken at literally hundreds of events in line with our aims of educating the
public about terrorism and foreign policy matters. Below is a very select list of a few
events we have conducted.

ICSR Briefing (lune 2014):

Discussion attended by academics, journalists and political risk representatives on field
observations from the Syria research team’s recent trip to the Turkey-Syria border, as
well as an update on the foreign fighter database membership and affiliations.

ICSR #GreenBirds Report launch event (April 2014)
Official paper launch of our report.

The Current Terrorist Threat in the United States and Beyond (January 2014)

Frontline Club (September 2013):
Shiraz Maher discusses the implications of non-intervention in Syria in a sold-out
seminar at the Frontline Club.

Ltt) WW WIT OU EP COT) i

   

000056

000057
Document Released Under the Access to

Inbeuatien Reledees unabt diaukveeasyertu
dptorbeition Ace oBodubidar didagaé en vertu
de ta Loi sur I'accés a l'information

SELECTED MEDIA APPEARANCES

ICSR's Syria team regularly engages in mutual information exchanges with, and provides
appearances for, national and international news outlets including; BBC, ITV, Sky and
CNN.

HardTalk: An Interview with Shiraz Maher (BBC Persia, April 2014):

Syria Jihadist Training ‘worst since Afghanistan in 1980s’ (CNN, June 2014):

Peter Neumann discusses the foreign fighter training process live on CNN Amanpour,
providing updates on numbers from the ICSR database and comparing the Syrian
phenomenon with the foreign fighter mobilization i in aera during the 1980s.

 

‘Social media used to recruit new wave of British jihadists in Syria’ (The Guardian, April
2014):

The Guardian chronicles the work of ICSR’s Syria team on the Internet, social media and
foreign fighter networks active within Syria a ahead of the #GreenBirds report. |

 

Peter Neumann discuss the threat that ISIS poses to the West on Sky News (November ~
2013):

httos://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rPDz1N41 GY

Briton ‘doing his duty’ by fighting for group linked to al-Qaeda in Syria (November
2013):

ICSR’s Syria team facilitates contact between BBC Newsnight and a well-known British
foreign fighter for a collaborative case-study based feature on the subject of motivation.

httn://www,bbc.co.uk/news/uk-25022097

000057

000058
Document Released Under the Access to
Document RélddsoddiskienthivAkpesetovertu
thidentatia Ath? Decanistitdivalgueé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

UPCOMING ACTIVITES OVER THE NEXT THREE MONTHS

ICSR’s Syria team is currently working on three upcoming reports.

1. An exploration of the convergence of online and offline communities in facilitating a
foreign fighter’s journey to Syria and their subsequent group affiliation.

2. Aprofile of foreign fighters from North America - who they are and how they go. We
also explore what differences and similarities exist between those who go from
Europe and North America.

3. We will expose the route and networks that practically allow someone to get from
Europe - and Britain in particular - into Syria.

Upcoming public events include: -

1. Presentation of our findings at the IDC Herzliya conference in Israel.
2. Presentation of our findings to the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ministry at the
prestigious annual Henriette van Lynden lecture series.
3. Presentation of findings at Singapore Centre of Excellence for National Security.
4. Further meetings lined up for briefings with HMG departments including the Home
, Office, Ministry of Defence, and Defence Science and Technology Laboratory.

000058

000059
, Document Released Under the Access to

Inbecuist Relédesaumaat dkuasennyertu
dintorknitian Azer Booutiat aiviigne en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés & Finformation
o Finding #8: “For counter-radical messages to be effective they need to be much more frequently and
consistently produced, as is the case with radical material...in addition, counter-radical messages must
involve local, trust-worthy, moderate authorities.”

Counter Messaging:
- Counter messaging can take a number of forms and have varying levels of success, depending on strategic
__ approach and execution.
- Counter messaging must also be built upon a foundation of effective best practices and collected information
(see above and below):
- Counterspéech (Susan Benesch and Derek Ruths: Considerations for Successful Counterspeech )

o Counterspeech, defined as a response that takes issue with hateful, harmful or extremist content, has
proven in some contexts to be useful in changing immediate online behavior of hateful users on Twitter.

©. This is particularly true in one-on-one engagements in which the engager used an empathetic/kind tone,
images and humour. Identifying the speech as hateful, but not the user. Many-to-many initiatives can
also have a positive impact, hijacking hateful/dangerous hashtags, but not necessarily changing the
attitudes of the hateful users.

o Other approaches, such as one-to-many and many-to-one counterspeech do not seem to result in the
same constructive impact.

- Evaluating Methods to Diminish Expressions of Hatred and Extremism Online (Susan.Benesch)
oO The use of an automated scraping technology to pull down hateful/dangerous speech and
_ counterspeech from Twitter, via keywords and hashtags.

© Goal was to understand what sort of counterspeech is effective against hateful/dangerous speech across
different contexts. ,

o The scraping tool used on Twitter can be applied on that platform to pull down Islamic State and
terrorist group content in order to both understanding current messaging
techniques/patterns/narratives and provide information of use to quickly developing
counternarratives/counter messaging for Twitter

o Similar technology can be leveraged against other platforms with an API and which allow the
governments and their partners to do so.

© Such automated processes should be improved to help enhance the collection and identification abilities
around hate/dangerous speech and counterspeech.

- (Sand the Jihadist Information Highway: Projecting influence and Religious Identity via Telegram (Nico Prucha,
Perspectives on Terrorism)

© Telegram the primary hub for dispatching new content since early 2016

o 1S presents itself, in Arabic, as an Arab movement fighting for independence, composed of modern-day
islamic warriors/defenders of Sunni communities. Foreign fighters convey their religious reasons for
joining to individuals in their home countries. ‘

o The West has employed half-hearted counter-narratives that usually neither touch upon the Arabic
propaganda content, nor the messages conveyed by non-Arab foreign fighters, who explain their
reasons for joining the cause in their own words.

© Telegram is now the main hub for [S to share content from other platforms and as a staging ground to
share content te/coordinate “media raids” on other platforms. Twitter and Facebook accounts are
published on Telegram, content from which is brought into Telegram: incite and recruit. new members.
(Note: Question becomes how to ensure potential members do not follow into the depths of IS
Telegram accounts, what role for messaging in countering this progression?) _

© Counter narratives need to engage religious discourses, as religion is one of the central elements in 1S’

” efforts to recruit and radicalize. There is a need to deconstruct the theology of violence inherent in
jihadi communications and practice. '
- Studying IS!S-related Activities on Telegram (Derek Ruths)

o Ruths studied the early stage adoption of the Telegram platform by the Islamic State by scraping,
categorizing and analyzing content from English language |S-related accounts .

o While not comprehensive, the study highlights a few things:

4
000004

000006
Document Released Under the Access to
Décumelt Réeasbourdenthd adeseste vertu
hifolrriationuAdta(Deeuntantaivaljad en vertu
de Ia Loi sur l'accés a linformation .

Template to assist with amending your contrition agreement ~ please save, complete sections highlighted in yellow,
and send back to me as soon as possible @ Thank you! Cassandra -

1.

 

lease provide me with a short narrative (no more than a paragraph or two) explaining why you are
required to extend your agreement into the next fiscal year. For example, I know staff tumover is one
reason we discussed. How much additional time do you need?

 

There are two primary reasons we require a no-cost extension to our agreement. These are follows:

- Since starting the project, ICSR has sought to bring a high degree of social science rigor to the process
_ of studying the Syrian conflict. This is because we believe an empirical base is important for informing

our study, rather thari just anecdotal evidence. Our database is, arguably, the best and largest of its kind
anywhere in the world and is bringing forward important results for a number of interested parties —
including the Canadian government, Building this digital infrastructure has been far more time
consuming and exhaustive than we anticipated (there is no precedent for it). While this has delayed us,
we have now collected a huge amount of data and are therefore proceeding with using this to produce
highly detailed and informed reports. . :

- Staff turnover (70% of the team have moved on to new opportunities!) has impacted in our ability to
meet previously anticipated deadlines.

We therefore request a no-cost extension on deliverables.
Below, if applicable, please type in the revised budget number next to the number currently approved in
your amended contribution agreement. Are you able to spend all of your budget for 2014-15? Could you

potentially spend more money, if funds are available? How much additional funding do you require for
2015-167:

Eligible Expenses for Fiscal Year

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2014 - 2015
DETAILED CASH ELIGIBLE EXPENSES

Detailed *Eligible © Currently approved Revised budget
Expenditures, according to Public Safety Canada | (decrease or increase )
Program T&C Categories Funding
Salaries and wages" ~__ $120,862.33 No change
Travel (field work) $7,000.00 No change
Public awareness and
educational activities $5,000.00 No change
Office space costs $3,698.67 No change

Sub-Total Cash) $136,561.00 No change

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Eligible Expenses for Fiscal Yea:
2015 - 2016 :

 

PROPOSED CASH ELIGIBLE EXPENSES

 

 

 

ao00ss

000060
s.13(1){a)
s.15(1) - Int'l

and send back to me as soon as possible © Thank you! Cassandra °

x

$.13(4)(a)
8.15(1) - Int'l

3. Using tracked changes, please edit the Project Description/Workplan table from Annex A of your original
contribution agreement, as required. Please note that if deliverables are not completed by the dates of

 

 

 

 

 

 

Document Released Under the Access to
Dikaunetie Réleas bn CHidenthd Adguéerte vertu
KifolerlationuAdanboounléntcdinttiad en vertu
de la Loi sur I'accaés a l'information ©

Template to assist with amending your contrition agreement — please save, complete s¢ctions highlighted in yellow,

 

 

Detailed *Eligible
Expenditures, according to
Program T&C Categories
Salaries and wages No additional.funds
requested
Travel (field work) No additional funds
requested .
Public awareness and No additional funds
educational activities requested .
Office space costs No additional funds
: requested
Sub-Total — Cash | No additional funds
. requested

 

 

completion listed, our finance folks will not allow us to release payment for your file:

 

 

 

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

Deliverable Clientele Outputs Date
Public Briefing paper | Government officials, | 5,000 word paper | 3/14
“Western foreign academics, media to be published livered
fighters/Syria” and disseminated
by ICSR
Canadian government | 5,000 word paper | 05/15
officials produced
exclusively for
Canadian
overnment
Online resource Government officials, | Searchable p6/15
“Foreign academics, media section of ICSR .
fighters/Syria” website, to be
maintained
throughout the
. project’s duration
Research monograph | General public, 75,000 word 12/15,
“Syrian Militant government officials, monograph to be
Movements” academics, media published by
major academic
publisher
Workshops and Government officials, | Minimum ofhalf | 03/15
briefings on Syria in academics, media a dozen meetings IM has already done some
Ottawa, Canada with presentation eetings and we will come again in
and discussion of arch 2015.
: key findings
Special journal issue General public, 20,000 word 03/15
government officials, edited conference | iWe require some guidance from
academics, media publication, or ou on this one. We were original

 

 

 

000060

000061
Document Released Under the Access to

leunndet Roeabarwidet dseuesryertu
dafartreten daccdscubvate'amaligie en vertu
+ de la Loi sur l'aceés a linformation

Template to assist with amending your contrition agreement — please save, complete sections highlighted i in yellow,
and send back to me as soon as possible © Thank you! Cassandra .

 

 

special issue of oing to produce this based on a.

Democracy and nference (for which we originally,
Security udgeted — but which was the:
. out of the budget). I’m not
how we can produce this -

ithout a conference. (That said)
lease see below and maybe we can
fio a swap?)

 

 

 

 

 

In addition to the deliverables above, for no additional cost, but based on our extensive database, we are
producing at least two extra 10,000 word papers on the following issues:

- The interplay between online and ‘real world’ radicalization. We explore the role of peer pressure and
socialization networks in mobilizing people for jihad .

- Explaining the ‘facilitation’ network in Turkey which practically allows foreign fighters to join jihadist
groups.

000061

000062
Document Released Under the Access to

Inf®erainentReldcea uridellndamess-atu

de hefdsonatlor! aot? Dodiimienitidiatyue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: : Peter.Ottis@international.gc.ca

Sent: Tuesday, February 16, 2016 7:50 AM

To: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Waintraub, Michelle (PS/SP)

Ce: Artur.Wilczynski@international.gc.ca; Marie-Josee.Rheaume@international.gc.ca;
Bjorn.Hernes@international.gc.ca

Subject: Follow up to your visit

Attachments: IB_OSLO-#39005-v1-OSLGR CVE Court Call National Police Commissioner 2015....doa<

IB_OSLO-#39004-v1-OSLGR CVE Court Cail Min of Justice 2015-11-17.docx

Hello Brett and Michelle!

| hope this email finds you safely back in Ottawa. Here are a couple of points that came out of the meetings:

1) I've forwarded links to the last CSIS AO reports to the two guests from Wednesday's lunch.

2) I’ve forwarded Bjorn-Petter Tore Bjorgo’s interest in possible academic collaboration, so we can follow up on
that. .

3) As per your request, | am attaching the meeting reports for two of the courtesy calls we did last fall in relation to
our CVE event. Let me know if you have any questions on the content.

Kind regards,

Peter Ottis

Foreign Policy and Diplomacy Service | Service de la Politique et de la Diplomatie
peter. ottis@international.ge.ca

Telephone | Téléphone : +47 22 99 53 36

Facsimile | Télécopieur : +47 22 99 53 01

Wergelandsveien 7, N-0244 Oslo, Norway

Global Affairs Canada | Affaires mondiales Canada

Government of Canada | Gouvernement du Canada

000062

000063
s.13(1)(a)
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
[RotumenhRalessask Undenttia digcessitaertu

dafesmmation Add Recamiearé diatigue en vertu
de la Loi sur faccés 4 [information

CVE-RELATED COURTESY CALLS — FALL 2015

MEETING #2 — NATIONAL POLICE DIRECTORATE

‘Date: 2015-11-19 — 1430 hours

Place: Fritjof Nansensvei 14 (Majorstuen)

RE: COURTESY CALL WITH NATIONAL POLICE COMMISSIONER HUMLEGARD

Overview of bilateral relationship

 

Commissioner Humlegard began the meeting by commenting on the warm relationship he has
had with Canadian police counterparts. In particular, Com. Humlegard is well acquainted with
former Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair from the ‘Pearts in Policing’ working group.

HOM provided an overview of the mission’s CVE event, highlighting the excellent working level
meetings at the National Police Directorate.

8.13(1)(a)
s.19(1)

s

Overview of Norwegian Police

As of 2016-01-01, Norway will go from 27 to 12 police districts. Though the move was met with
resistance from local politicians, the consolidation was widely supported by the national:
government and police alike. This move was one of the key recammendations that came out of
the 7/22 Report (the independent report following the 2011 terror attacks). By decreasing the
number of police districts, the police plans to significantly increase the tactical capability of each
district.

Although the 7/22 report was very critical of the police, it also revealed that there is virtually no
corruption in Norwegian police, the public has very high trust in the police and that the corps

_ has high academic standards. Every Norwegian police officer must have a three year degree

from the Police University College, which is very competitive. Every year some 5000 students
apply for 700 spots; 20% of all applicants already hald a bachelor degrée from another
institution. For six years running, police prosecutor has been the most popular career choice for

Norwegian law graduates.

000063

000064
s.13(1)(a)

Document Released Under the Access to
Rocumieah Releabad Winder thie Agcésateertu

dafermationAct/Beautiehtdkailgué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés a l'information

The Norwegian police see law enforcement as just a small portion of what the service does. As a
result, they encourage officers to take a mid-career break and pursue a wide range of career
options before returning to the service. Commissioner Humlegard spent several years at Det
Norske Veritas (DNV-GL}; Commissioner Smedsrud has a law degree and worked as a full time
lawyer several years back.

Current challenges

Com. Humlegard listed two major challenges facing Norwegian police: 8.13(1)(a).

1)

 

2) New ICT Initiatives: Norwegian police is looking to leverage technology in concert with the police

district amalgamation. The overriding motto is “fewer police buildings, greater police presence”.

The police plans to establish an inter-connected, structured database with a mobile portal that

will allow police officers to draft reports remotely and spend more time on the road. The new

solution was launched in three police districts and has thus far been deemed an overwhelming ‘5.4 3(1){a)
success.

 

Norwegian police international presence

The Norwegian police aim to have 1% of its force abroad, whether in a [liaison or training
capacity. Norway has been a-very active contributor to interpof and UN police training missions.
Norwegian officers are working at the new Interpol office in Singapore, and have most recently
trained local services in Liberia, Hebron and South Sudan. Norway has been lauded
internationally for its high level of police training in these missions. In addition, the four Nordic
European nations have a robust exchange program where police and customs officers are
seconded between forces.

Action item

Commissioner Humlegard was very excited at the prospect of meeting with senior Canadian
police and security officers should the opportunity arise in the new year.

Attendees

Odd Reidar Humlegard National Police Commissioner National Police Directorate
Knut Smedsrud Police Commissioner National Police Directorate
Kaare Songstad Head of Contingency Department National Police Directorate
Artur Wilczynski Ambassador Embassy of Canada to Norway

000064

000065
Document Released Under the Access to

Infoounratfelekiced Unaderithe! Aeeess tortu

delifonmiation ActéDectiniestditagué en vertu
de la Lol sur l'accés a Sinformation

Peter Ottis FPDS Assistant Embassy of Canada to Norway

Drafted: OSLO/Ottis
Consulted: OSLO/Rhéaume
Approved:

000065

000066
$.13(1)(a)

Document Released Under the Access to

IeEunAt RMbaborunae dstauedergertu
Critsratren Aastesauhvaia UNUighé en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

CVE-RELATED COURTESY CALLS — FALL 2015

MEETING #1 — MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SECURITY

Date: 2015-11-17 — 1300 hours

Place: Gullhaug Torg 4 (Nydalen)
RE: COURTESY CALL WITH MINISTER OF JUSTICE AND PUBLIC SECURITY

Overview of bilaterat relationship
e HOM highlighted that Norway and Canada have cooperated closely in the past on security
issues.
e Minister Anundsen reiterated this close cooperation and focussed on information sharing in
particular as a cornerstone of close cooperation.

Overview of Canadian election
“@ HOM provided a brief overview of the Canadian election. In particular, Minister Anundsen was
given a more detailed background on his two Canadian counterparts: Justice Minister Jody
Wilson-Raybould and Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale.
© In regards to the direction of the government, HOM advised that the new government has
published its mandate letters online.
Overview of Norwegian political situation 8.13(1)(a)

  
  

Norwegian foreign fighters, radicalization and radicalization prevention

; 5.13(1)(a)

® Last year the Ministry of Justice published its Action Plan against radicalization and extremist
violence. This whole-of-government approach has been weil received by national interlocutors.
The Minister considers it a robust framework for cooperation between government
organizations at different levels, as well as non-governmental organizations.

¢ The government will soon launch a new research centre focussing on Far Right extremism and
" violence. (A few days after the meeting it was announced that the University of Oslo will receive
50 million NOK to open the Center for Research on Extremism (C-REX). Tore Bjgrgo, one of
Norway’s most authoritative researchers on Far Right radicalization, was appointed as the
centre’s director.)

Update on migrant crisis
(previously sent under separate cover as OSLO-152)

000066

000067
s.13(1)(a)

Document Released Under the Access to

Psalter See ate

de rider AGE? DAGIHIGHTaWalyué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a information

If current trends continue, Norway will receive 120,000 refugees by the end of 2016. The
volume of arrivals has placed significant strain on the government trying to handle the logistics
of processing, transporting, housing and feeding these asylum seekers. Many of the steps taken -
up to now (such as housing asylum seekers in off-season tourist hotels) are understood to only
provide a short-term solution. Parties on both sides of the aisle agree that in the long term, a
different, more sustainable solution has to be found.
" 8.13(1)(a)

 

On Monday, 2015-11-16, 64 asylum seekers crossed the border in Storskog, East Finnmark;

there have been as many as 197 persons arriving per day. As of last week, more than 50% of the |
asylum seekers were coming from Afghianistan, followed by arrivals from Syria, Egypt and
Somalia. :

The government introduced a new bill last week (OSLO148 refers), which has had its first
reading on Monday, 2015-11-16 and second reading on Thursday, 2015-11-19. The bill aims to
streamline the deportation of asylum claimants with work / study / residence visas in Russia. At
the moment, these arrivals undergo the complete screening and evaluation pracess before they
are deemed ineligible. Under the new law, these asylum seekers would be turned around
straight at the border. The Minister stated that if these Afghan asylum seekers cannot be

returned to Russia, they will be sent to Afghanistan.
$.13(1)(a)

 

cond, Norway will remove the requirement
the return country to prove that it has the capability to process refugee applications in an
orderly fashion. This has been one of the roadblocks for returning asylum seekers to Russia.
Third, the government is proposing detaining failed asylum seekers before deportation. All of
the above provisions have majority support in the Parliament with a two year sunset clause.

The Ministry of Justice and Public Safety has taken the fead role in handling the refugee crisis.
The department has had very good cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in deporting
ineligible asylum seekers to Afghanistan and Pakistan. In regards to returns to other countries,

this has been a very politically sensitive topic in Norway. °

000067
000068
s.13(1)(a)

Document Released Under the Access to

InfBiocutiventReldaeed bader thd Actedeortu

delifdmiation' Act éBDédlinfontditinigué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'aceés a Finformation

s.13(1)(a)

 

© Norway has not seen a significant change in its threat assessment as a result of the refugee
‘crisis. Norway has recently lowered its threat assessment and gone back to de-arming its police
officers. (Norwegian police had previously been armed as an emergency measure following a
specific threat in July 2014.)

_ Attendees

Anders Anundsen
Elin Solberg
Andreas Skulberg
Siv Tone Syversen-
Nordherg

Artur Wilczynski
Peter Ottis

Drafted: OSLO/Ottis

Minister

Special Director Radicalization and Violent

_ Extremism

Deputy Director General ~ Correctional
Services Department

Assistant Chief of Police - The Police
Department

Ambassador

FPDS Assistant

Consulted: OSLO/Rhéaume
Approved: OSLO/Wilczynski

Ministry of Justice and Public
Security .
Ministry of Justice and Publi
Security

Ministry of Justice and Public
Security

Ministry of Justice and Public
Security

Embassy of Canada to Norway
Embassy of Canada to Norway

o00068

000069
Document Released Under the Access to
‘Inppeeuatenr Rdemee Onder thallaesege tertu
Uri Raton FRAT Deed eM GAAYLE en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés 4 l'information
" Telegram can be scraped for valuable content which can be used to guide counter messaging
" Such scraping can be applied ta a much larger data set and across languages, given the
appropriate expertise for both.
= Forward looking studies, such as this one, can be done not only on Telegram but many other
' platforms to which IS and other groups are active on/will migrate to.

Recommendations Going Forward:
- Facilitate effective inter-government, multilateral, and private-public partnerships in the facilitation, creation,
dissemination and tracking of online counter-messaging campaigns.
o This includes defining the role(s) of government and the elements of such effective partnerships.
© Increase the agility of these relationships and the production and dissemination of counter messaging
products. -
- Incorporate tracking measurements and initiatives to highlight the reach and resonance of counter-messaging
campaigns, creating a feedback loop for product improvement and the establishment of best practices.
‘ - Engage with target communities, both to understand the reach and resonance of counter-messaging and to
inform future initiatives, and to suggest core elements/facets of counter-messaging campaigns.:
- Incorporate forward thinking analysis in an attempt to predict and adapt counter messaging to the rapidly
changing environment (inclusive of a shift to new platforms, new messaging techniques and new message
content/narratives).

Let me know if you'd like to discuss any of this in person, might be able to come up with some additiona! points during a
conversation. : ;

Best,

Alx

° . : 000005

000007
Document Released Under the Access to

nbuantenReeadee une? tne wkeuseio”ertu
Hird aaN AGT? tice het UIVAILUS en vertu
de la Loi sur !'accés a l'information

From: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Sent: Saturday, January 16, 2016 4:20 PM

To: Goodyear, Lori (PS/SP)

Subject: oe FW: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Attachments: ICSR Draft Final Report.docx; PS-SP-#1730990-1-KPCP - List of Events.DOCX; PS-SP-#

1308963-4A-KPCP - Project Highlights.DOCX; PS-SP-#1731017-v1-
KPCP_Working_Groups.-_Table_of_Meetings.DOCX

FYI

 

From: Giroux2, Denis (PS/SP)

Sent: Friday, January 15, 2016 3:32 PM

To: McLaughlin, Julie (PS/SP) ,

Ce: Assadi2, Bahman (PS/SP); Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Martin, Connie (PS/SP)
Subject: RE: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Hi Julie,

Here is some information related to that request, which should respond to the bulk of your questions. In the next few
days, Brett may be bringing new comments and will provide the remainder of the requested information.

So, I’ve attached the Kanishka Highlights document (of which you had an earlier version), which should respond to items
1A to 1G; a list of all Kanishka events (supplement for item 1G); and another attachment that contains the info you need

for item 2.
For item 1H (on the Community of Science and Practice):

The Kanishka Project aims to increase the knowledge base about terrorism and counter-terrorism, but goes
beyond simply studying terrorism, as many of the studies are developing and testing new approaches to support
more effective policies, tools and resources for law enforcement and people on the front lines.

The initiative has aimed to rapidly and significantly expand research capacity outside government, ensure that
focus is on relevant questions, and make the results available for those who need them, in the right form and at
the right time. This capacity-building emphasis was designed to generate important new knowledge in the short
term, and create a sufficiently strong core and momentum for ongoing, tong-term improvement.

Prior to the Kanishka Project, a fundamental problem was that there were few scholars focusing on relevant
questions, those involved were largely isolated fromm one another, and the research was of limited interest to
practitioners. There was no community of science for researchers focusing on counter-terrorism relevant to the
Canadian context. To improve the knowledge base in support of more effective counter-terrorism, however, a
community of practice is also important, reflecting the parallel idea that there needs to be a critical mass of
perspectives from policy, program and civil society circles to share lessons and challenge assumptions.

For item | (Syria Conflict}, there are several deliverables. We have a draft of the final report as well; it should be
published late this month or sometime next month. As part of this study they have also published:
h :

 

‘000069

000070
Document Released Under the Access to

tentatenserr ecu oNeaNgis enon
ROH Act? Bdcth TPIS en vertu

de fa Loi sur laccés a l'information

- And this study was produced based on the data from our funded study, and is considered a deliverable:

- This web resource: https: /ficsrforeigntig ghters.wordpress.com/

More info to follow, some of which you'll receive over Dragon.

 

Best,

_ Denis
Denis.Giroux. ja.ca
613-949-5728

aan ei

 

From: McLaughlin, Julie (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, January 05, 2016 10:52 AM

To: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Lively, Cassandra (PS/SP)
Ce: Assadi2, Bahman (PS/SP)

Subject: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Good morning,
| hope you had good Holidays.
Would it be possible to provide us with the following information and documentation:

1) An update on the Kanishka Project — Key achievements to date (an update on the Project Highlights that you
provided ~doc #1308963), in particular:

Total amount of investment to date;

# of total projects and # of projects completed;

# of workshops and research symposiums etc. hosted;

# of websites etc. developed;

# of research studies contracted directly by PS, including # of studies that are completed;

# of student projects funded;

# and nature of other events hosted;

Some background and more concrete performance information on the Community of Science and

Practice, if available;

A copy of the ICSR study entitled “The Syria Conflict: the Evolution of al Qaeda and other Militant

Movements after the Arab Spring”; and perhaps, all reports that are not publicly available;

j. Any other documents that potentially discusses the need for having an Initiative such as Kanishka,
including any new MCs or other inception documents,

re m™~oaoop

.

2) We would also like to get the following information on various management committees:

 

 

 

 

 

Working Group Frequency of meeting # of times has met over | Are there records of
the past five years decisions (can we have
access to these, if
required)
Steering Committee :
Working Group
Advisory Group

 

 

 

 

 

We would appreciate if you could provide this information by January 15.

2
000070

000071
Document Released Under the Access to

“fet a Ea OAs ene

de la Loi sur faccés a {information

Please fet us know if you have any questions.

Thank you

Julie McLaughlin

Evaluator | Evaluatrice

Internal Audit and Evaluation Directorate | Direction générale de la vérification interne et de l'évaluation
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Tel./Tél.: 613-998-2973

Julie. melaughlin@canada.ca

000071

000072
DUPLICATE Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Pages 72 to /a103
are duplicates

sont des duplicatas

000073
>

me NH

10.
11.

12.
13.
14.

15.
16.

17.
18.

19.

Document Released Under the Access to

Infuciniiak Relédeeaunaat te Abuse morte

dfnférheatioH Ret P Coeuribnt areliigne en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a [information *

Kanishka Project — List of Events

Updated January 2016

Kanishka London Symposium — December 14-15, 2015 (London, UK)

Workshop on Behaviour patterns of lone actor terrorists, solo actors, and mass casualty
shooters (Gill/Corner/Amarasingam ) —- December 2015

Open Source intelligence Workshop — November 2015

Radicatization and Violent Extremism: Lessons Learned from Canada, the UK and the US - July
2015 (Washington, DC)

TSAS Chatham House Event with Dr. Nico Prucha on Counter-Narratives — June 2015
Kanishka Project Research Affiliate Program Workshop — March 2015
Kanishka Project Symposium on Sacial Media and Online Analytics — March 2015

Children & Youth in Challenging Contexts (CYCC) Network and Wisdom2Action Calgary -
“Best Practices to Promote the Resilience of Youth Against Violent Extremism” (funding through
contribution program) — March 2015

Metropolis Pre-forum: Kanishka Project Symposium (17 National Metropolis Conference) —
March 2015 .

Kanishka Project Symposium on Community-Based Research — Feb 2015

Symposium on Early intervention models for preventing violent extremism (Khan/Kohler/Vidino)
- December 2014

Kanishka Project Research Affiliate Program Event — March 2014 .

CIDB Database Event - March 2014

Kanishka Project Sessions at the 16 National Metropolis Conference — March 2014
(RDIMS#1057916)

Air India Families’ Event — Feb 2014

Interdepartmental workshop to examine connections between research on hate speech and
preventing/respanding to violent extremism — June 2013

Kanishka retreat of officials and key subject matter experts to conduct a mid-term progress
review of Kanishka, as well as the state of terrorism research and the threat picture more
generally, to help focus priorities and operation of the program — June 2013

Ottawa — breakfast session for Minister of Public Safety with Kanishka graduate student
Research Affiliate Program award winners, along with select Kanishka-funded scholars — April
2013

Ottawa series of events on risk and resilience at Metropolis conference including plenary
‘Understanding risk and fostering resilience in a diverse society’, as well as workshops — March -

2013

000104

000074
20.
21.
22.
23.

24,

Document Released Under the Access to

Derunndn Ree adaqcunaer tne nkuusetovertu
fifdmnhatiand abe? Odscarhente divaliniS en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Organizational and funding support for NS Policy led international Symposium on Measuring
Effectiveness of Countering Violent Extremism Programming which featured several Kanishka-
supported researchers — March 2013

Kanishka Opening Conference — November 2012

Montreal/Quebec Metropolis Centre ‘justice, policing and security’ capstone event — November
2012 .

Ottawa universities collaborative research design workshop for researchers and officials —
September 2012

Ottawa Kanishka collaborative research design symposium for researchers and officials - May

* 2012

25s.

26.

UBC workshop on migration and security, and research network development workshop — April
2012

Metropolis Toronto pre-conference: ‘Fear and Polarization: What can we learn from Europe?”, a

’ plenary on resilience, multiple workshops, and a keynote by the Minister of Public Safety - Feb

27.

29.

2012

Information session for families of Air India victims on Kanishka and the ex gratia payment
program — January 2012

. DM-level policy conversation, and working level roundtable with scholars and officials on

countering violent extremism (co-host with NS Policy) - January 2012

Multiple engagement sessions with individual researchers to discuss their Kanishka research —
including for multiple meetings of the Cross Cultural Roundtable on Security ~ or research
related to Kanishka to gauge if af relevance to Canadian policy and program needs on counter-
terrorism (estimate well over 20)

000105

000075
Document Released Under the Access to
(lostyabia eles upset Waves a=" tu
datéihatish BIR aVaNgHE en vertu

de la Loi sur a soceea a wef

Kanishka Project - Key Achievements to Date:

Kanishka Project has invested over $6.7 million through the contribution mechanism for
37 projects, 23 of which are complete and a number of which involve multiple unique
studies.

Collectively, initiatives under the Project’s contribution program have hosted dozens of |
workshops and research symposiums, created ten websites for public knowledge
dissemination, and submitted more than 50 research reports.

PS has directly contracted nine research studies, funded 24 student projects, and hosted a
range of events to bring together officials, researchers and stakeholders, including family
members of victims of the Air India bombing.

Kanishka has generated new capacity to support counter-terrorism practitioners through new
relationships between departments and researchers. Of note, the Canadian Network for
Research on Terrorism, Security and Society (TSAS) was created in 2012 with core
funding from Round One of the Kanishka Project. TSAS fosters multidisciplinary research
on terrorist radicalization, the coordinated interaction of academic researchers with
government officials, and the cultivation of a new generation of young scholars interested in

. terrorism, security, and the impact of both on society. It currently has over 50 affiliated

researchers from a variety of disciplines with partnerships across government, civil society
groups, and internationally.

The development of a “community of science and practice” has resulted in more informed
public discourse, which played out in a real way after the October 22 Ottawa shootings.

o- Scholars from TSAS and other Kanishka studies participated in over 100 media
appearances in the days following the Ottawa shooting.

o Kanishka researchers quickly responded to a call from the federal S&I Community
for assessments on the reaction of online communities to the Oct 22 Ottawa shooting.

REASEARCH FUNDED

Consultations with partners in the security and intelligence community have shown that their
engagement with Kanishka researchers, especially through the TSAS network, have directly
contributed to priority setting for intelligence analysts, as well as to the framing of analytical
products, and to the content of intelligence assessments.

Ongoing research projects like The Syria Conflict: the Evolution of al Qaeda and other
Militant Movements after the Arab Spring, by the International Centre for the Study of
Radicalisation and Political Violence (ICSR), which is housed at King’s College London
(UK), are not only contributing to public understanding about the involvement of foreign

- terrorist fighters, but also serving a complementary function to closed-source intelligence.

Findings from work under the above-mentioned Syria Conflict study have recently been used
to brief frontline police officers on the phenomenon of young females traveling to Syria, how

000106

000076
Document Released Under the Access to

oven ReteadsaquHeer tne alauneiovertu
Aifdrraatian Abe? CRicahee UAL en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés 4 information -

they are being recruited, and therefore what at signs to consider in assessing risk and supporting
appropriate early intervention.

Other Kanishka-funded studies by the SecDev Foundation and by Professor Lorenzo
Vidino are showing how in a number of cases of radicalization leading to violence, patterns
of online activity shift from asking questions and seeking knowledge to increasingly closed-
minded rhetoric. As a result of their study, the SecDev Group has shifted from looking
primarily at supporting government analysis of social media for preventing radicalization to
how they can better support civil society organizations, and will soon be launching a web
portal for this purpose.

Several studies, including work led by Ryerson University and the University of Alberta,
are showing that there are significant and powerful counter-messages already being created
within communities to challenge recruitment efforts by movements like ISIS.

The work of the Kanishka Project is directly contributing to the three elements of how the
Government is working to counter violent extremism identified in the 2014 Public Report
on the Terrorist Threat to Canada. The three elements, and examples of Kanishka projects
that support progress in these areas, are as follows:

- Communities: Building Prevention Capacity

o Researchers from McGill University have expanded their Kanishka study to learn
from participants in PS-run community dialogues on real-life radicalization-to-
violence experiences and thereby better understand and address sources of intolerance

_ and potential violence. This study is called The Impact of Narratives of Conflict,
Security and Co-Existence on Muslim Communities in Canada and partners include
the community group North American Spiritual Revival as well as York
University.

o Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD) is creating short films about Canadian
‘experiences with violent extremism along with training materials, to be used as
resources for the prevention of terrorism and violent extremism by youth and
community organizations, in school settings, by police for community outreach, and
by any other partners working to prevent violent extremism (“Extreme Dialogue”).

Countering Violent Extremism: Policing and Communities

o Ryerson University and the University of Alberta are working with communities
and police in Toronto and Edmonton to study factors that heighten or reduce the risk
of violent extremism, how these differ across communities, and how police services
can strengthen partnerships tailored to local needs.

o Researchers from the Jewish General Hospital, along with Ryerson University, the
University of Quebec in Montreal, the University of Saskatchewan, and the
Environics Institute, are examining how police cultural competency training

000107

000077
Document Released Under the Access to

Infopeatien?Reidasey Under iuAbeEaS a tU

delhidrmatten Ace #Oadiiniennetalyué en vertu
de fa Loi sur Faceés 4 l'information

programs contribute to national security law enforcement in Montreal, Toronto and
Saskatoon.

Stopping Radicalization to Violence: Targeted Intervention

o Ongoing research about extremist travelers to Syria and Iraq by ICSR is providing
some of the most commonly-cited public information about the scale and extent of
the phenomenon, the aims and motivations of those who join violent extremist groups
in those countries, their travel patterns, as well as who is influencing individuals who
choose to travel through both online and offline means.

000108
000078
Document Released Under the Access to

Infoperationinbrelgas!

ee eet A

fia aubsee eT

Qué en vertu

de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

Kanishka Project - WG Meetings/Deliverables of the ICSR Study

 

# of times has met

Are there records of

 

 

 

 

Working Group Frequency of meeting
over the past five decisions (can we
years have access to these,
if required}
Steering Committee | Once per round of 5, plus 3+ times Yes (access could be
funding” virtually arranged)
Working Group Once per round of 5 meetings+1 telcon, | Yes (access could be
funding plus 3+ times virtually arranged)
Advisory Group | Ad hoc 3 No

 

 

 

 

 

000109

000079
Document Released Under the Access to

Inomutiont Rd lehest Dredd the lavdess vertu
ddrifobmation asteDocliméntdivuigué en vertu
de Ja Loi sur 'accés 4 Pinformation

Peers over Propaganda:
Online Radicalisation among British Foreign Fighters

By Nick Kaderbhai, Shiraz Maher, and Peter Neumann

CONTENT
Introduction p.l
Islamic State vs. Wannabe Fighters p.5
The Pains of Inaction p. 12
Fighting Communities p. 19
On and Offline . p. 26
Conclusion . p.32
Introduction

The impact of online communication on processes of radicalisation has been vigorously debated
for years. Extremist groups were among the first and most enthusiastic adopters of the internet —
a medium which they believed was free of government control and censorship, allowing for their
unfiltered message to be heard by supporters and sympathisers all over the world.’ Nowadays,
there is practically no extremist group that doesn’t have an online Presence — ~ though their -
activities vary in degree and sophistication.”

Since the beginning of the Syrian conflict in 2011, jihadist groups are widely thought to have
broken new ground. Their use of social media is believed to be massive and sophisticated. For:
‘Islamic State’, it has come to be seen as a central and distinctive feature of its modus operandi,
helping the group intimidate and manipulate their enemies, as well as radicalize and recruit
potential supporters. 3 It is the latter — the role of online communications in radicalization and
recruitment - that is the subject of this report. What impact does social media have on wannabe
foreign fighters from Western countries? How do they use the internet, and — most importantly —
what makes them join up? .

In much of the recent media coverage, the Islamic State’s online campaign is presented as
strongly coordinated and centrally organized, reaching a global audience through high end video

1 Peter Neumann, Countering Online Radicalization in America (Washington DC: Bipartisan Policy Center, 2022), pp.

15-17; available at http://bipartisanpolicy.org/wp-
content/uploads/sites/default/fi les/BPC%20 Online%20Radicalization%20Report.odf.

2 See Gabriel Weimann, New Terrorism and New Media (Washington DC: Woodrow Wilson Center, 2014); available

at htto://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/STIP_140501 new terrorism F.pdf.

3 See, for example, Rose Powell, ‘Cats and Kalashnikovs: Behind the ISIL social media strategy’, Sydney Morning
Herald, 24 June 2014; Steve Rose, ‘The Isis propaganda war: a hi~tech media jihad’, Guardian, 7 October 2014;
Scott Shane and Ben Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying a Deft Command of Varied Media’, New York Times, 30 August 2014.

1
000006

000008
Document Released Under the Access to
[Documbnt Reteased-Unewrlte Wasess toertu
deftarhation Akt? Bocarlioie divaligué on vertu
do la Loi sur 'accés a information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: | _.  Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Sent: . Friday, January 15, 2016 10:25 AM

Ta: Giroux2, Denis (PS/SP}

Ce: Martin, Connie (PS/SP) .
Subject: ‘ RE: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents:
Attachments: report canada internet. docx

Ok, here goes with a first wave of answers. More later, | hope...
I think only 23 of the contribution agreements are complete {no big deal though).

We have at least 9 examples of direct contracts, with 5 being complete. (I think there are more than 9, but need to
review.)

The Steering Committee was asked at least a few times to make decisions virtually, especially where there had to be
proposal amendments, as well as decisions like whether to support any of the small number proposals that came
through SSHRC funding mechanisms. This probably happened in 2 or 3 of the 5 calls for proposals, and on more than one
issue. So I’d say 3+ virtual decisions. We can track those down if needed.

Same for Working Group on virtual decisions, especially to consult on proposal amendments and decisions on SSHRC
proposals, and there were probably more such virtual meetings. A guess would be 5+, but could be more. The Working
Group was also the community we drew from for review boards on e.g. targeted contract calls for proposals and the
Research Affiliate Program competitions, where boards needed to be much smaller. So there would have been in the
range of 10 of these sub meetings (at least a couple of the 5 contract calls required multiple meetings, and there were at
least 3 meetings to decide on the Research Affiliate Program competitions). As well, the working group had several

. virtual and in-person meetings for priority setting. So we leaned on them to create the four Kanishka Theme areas at the
start of the program, and then we held -an all-day retreat (mentioned below), followed by further virtua! consultations in
the summer of 2013 to review progress and the broader research and threat environment to focus efforts, including a
targeted list of questions used both to inform the following open calls, and to motivate several targeted contract calls.

For item | (Syria Conflict), there are several deliverables. We have a draft of the final report too, attached (‘report
canada internet’). Should be published late this month or sometime next month. As part of this study they have also
published: 8 .

 

- This web ré resource (which you can add to the web site count}: s://icsrforeignfighters.word

For item H, we'll be addressing that when we conduct our own performance measures, focusing on ‘fit for use’
measures linked to our logic model. Though some basic evidence is not only the much larger network of researchers
engaged with Kanishka and working directly with gov partners (e.g. the #s from TSAS}, but how we have a much wider
range of gov and non-gov partners at all levels of government, domestically (e.g. more than 6 municipal police forces
were involved in our Canada-US-UK event in July), and internationally such as through the Policy Planners Network
(where Kanishka has been strongly represented - http://www.strategicdialogue.org/progra nter-
extremism/ppn), and the new 5 Eyes research partnership on CVE.

As well, while | think they have this, here is some language re the community of science/practice:
1
. 000110

000080
Document Released Under the Access to
[DoourntinnRelbadser Unde tie devese tee'tu
daftsrhation Act sca hieitavaligas en vertu
de la Loi sur.'aceés 4 l'information

The Kanishka Project aims to increase the knowledge base about terrorism and counter-terrorism, but goes
beyond simply studying terrorism, as many of the studies are developing and testing new approaches to support
more effective policies, tools and resources for law enforcement and people on the front lines.

The initiative has aimed to rapidly and significantly expand research capacity outside government, ensure that
focus is on relevant questions, and make the results available for those who need them, in the right form and at
the right time. This capacity-building emphasis was designed to generate important new knowledge in the short
term, and create-a sufficiently strong core and momentum for ongoing, long-term improvement.

Prior to the Kanishka Project, a fundamental problem was that there were few scholars focusing on relevant
questions, those involved were largely isolated from one another, and the research was of limited interest to
practitioners. There was no community of science for researchers focusing on counter-terrorism relevant to the
Canadian context. To improve the knowledge base in support of more effective counter-terrorism, however, a
community of practice is also important, reflecting the parallel idea that there needs to be a critical mass of
perspectives from policy, program and civil society circles to share lessons and challenge assumptions.

For J, tricky, but I'll try to send Julie and Bahman a couple recent examples over Dragon. I'll let you know when I’ve done
so. . :

For some other events, again, there will be more, but here’s another wave:

- Metropolis Toronto pre-conference: ‘Fear and Polarization: What can we learn from Europe?’, a plenary on
resilience, multiple workshops, and a keynote by the Minister of Public Safety — Feb. 2012

- UBC workshop on migration and security, and research network development workshop — April 2012

- Montreal/Quebec Metropolis Centre ‘justice, policing and security’ capstone event — November 2012

- Ottawa series of events on risk and resilience at Metropolis conference including plenary ‘Understanding risk
and fostering resilience in a diverse society’, as well as workshops — March 2013

- _ Information session for families of Air India victims on Kanishka and the ex gratia payment program — January
2012

- DM-level policy conversation, and working level roundtable with scholars and officials on countering violent .

extremism (co-host with NS Policy) — January 2012

- Ottawa Kanishka collaborative research design symposium for researchers and officials — May 2012

- Multiple engagement sessions with individual researchers to discuss their Kanishka research — including for
multiple meetings of the Cross Cultural Roundtable on Security — or research related to Kanishka to gauge if of
relevance to Canadian policy and program needs on counter-terrorism (estimate well over 20)

- Ottawa universities collaborative research design workshop for researchers and officials — September 2012

- Organizational and funding support for NS Policy led international Symposium on Measuring Effectiveness of
Countering Violent Extremism Programming which featured several Kanishka-supported researchers — March
2013

-- Ottawa — breakfast session for Minister of Public Safety with Kanishka graduate student Research Affiliate
Program award winners, along with select Kanishka-funded scholars — April 2013

- Kanishka retreat of officials and key subject matter experts to conduct a mid-term progress review of Kanishka,
as well as the state of terrorism research and the threat picture more generally, to help focus priorities and
operation of the program — June 2013

-  Interdepartmental workshop to examine connections between research on hate speech and
preventing/responding to violent extremism — June 2013

Brett Kublcek, PhD
Manager, Research and Academic Relations | Gestionnaire, Recherche et relations académiques

Portfolio Affairs and Communications Branch | Secteur des affaires du portefeuille et des communications
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada
Tel: 613.991.7779 | Fax: 613.954.3131 | brett kubicek@canada.ca

000111

000081
Document Released Under the Access to

seep ag

en vertu
de la Loi sur facceés a [information

 

From: Giroux2, Denis (PS/SP)
Sent: Thursday, January 14, 2016 3:30 PM.

Ta: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)

Ce: Martin, Connie (PS/SP)

Subject: FW: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for. documents

Brett,

Here’s the key highlights doc. It responds to the bulk of the items requested by Audit. There are two elements in it that
highlighted in yellow; | believe them to be accurate, but I’d appreciate if you could confirm them. The rest I’ve been able
" to either confirm independently or by consulting Cassandra. :

I could really use your help/insight for Items | and J. | assume that the [CSR study that is mentioned (The Syria Conflict:
the Evolution of al Qaeda and other Militant Movements after the Arab Spring) should bé ready soon; would that be the
research that is alluded to in your recent exchanges with King’s College?

More importantly, you probably would be much better placed than | am to know about any reports that may not have
been released publicly, and about any decision/advisory documents that I’m not yet familiar with. ‘

For the AG/WG/SC, I’ve inserted the meetings+RoDs that I’ve found on RDIMS, but I’ve got the feeling that there’s a bit
that | haven’t found re: the Advisory Group. The info that’s there comes from my chat with Cassandra, and I’m not able
ta corroborate or confirm the info for that one. Yasmeen.and Connie helped me out, and we've found evidence of a
total of three meetings. Would there be others you'd be aware of? Would we have had RoDs for these?

 

 

 

 

 

 

Working Group Frequency of meeting | # of times has met over | Are there records of
the past five years decisions (can we have
access to these, if
required)
Steering Committee Once per round of 5 Yes (access could be
. funding arranged)
Working Group Once per round of 5 meetings+1 telcon Yes (access could be
funding arranged)
Advisory Group Ad hoc 3 No

 

 

 

 

(We could optionally offer to share ToRs of these groups with Audit.)

Here are the dates of the meetings I’m aware of:

Steering Committee: 7 Feb 2012, 5 June 2012, 21 January 2013, 23 May 2013, January 2014.
Working Group: February 2012, 31 May 2012, 6 May 2013, 10 January 2013, December 2013.
Advisory Group: 9 Jan 2014, 24 Jan 2014 (Telcon), 5 Nov 2014.

Yasmeen also put together a list of workshops/research symposiums that we've hosted throughout the Project lifecycle.
She advised me that some may be missing, but this is a start.

Workshops/Conferences/Events hosted by Kanishka Project 2012-Present ,

1. Kanishka London Symposium — December 14-15, 2015 (London, UK)
2. Workshop on Behaviour patterns of lone actor terrorists, solo actors, and mass casualty

shooters (Gill/Corner/Amarasingam )— December 2015
3. Open Source intelligence Workshop ~ November 2015
4. Radicalization and Violent Extremism: Lessons Learned from Canada, the UK and the US - July 2015 (Washington,

Dc}

3
000112

000082
Document Released Under the Access to

nfeseamiont Relédeeawneter talkurede erty

dinfornedtion Act Ooduiindaraitigud en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

TSAS Chatham House Event with Dr. Nico Prucha on Counter-Narratives — June 2015

Kanishka Project Research Affiliate Program Workshop ~ March 2015

Kanishka Project Symposium on Social Media and Online Analytics — March 2015

Children & Youth in Challenging Contexts (CYCC) Network and Wisdom2Action Calgary -

“Best Practices to Promote the Resilience of Youth Against Violent Extremism” (funding through contribution

program) — March 2015

5. Metropolis Pre-forum: Kanishka Project Symposium (17" National Metropolis Conference) — March 2015

10. Kanishka Project Symposium on Community-Based Research — Feb 2015

11. Symposium on Early Intervention models for preventing violent extremism (Khan/Kohler/Vidino) — December
2014

12. Kanishka Project Research Affi liate Program Event — March 2014

13. CIDB Database Event — March 2014

14. Kanishka Project Sessions at the 16" National Metropolis Conference — March 2014 (RDIMS#1057916)

15. Air India Families’ Event — Feb 2014

16. Kanishka Opening Conference - November 2012

ONT

(The e-mail below still has a line in red which would be what | suggest to send them as a response to Item H re: the
community of science and practice. )

Denis
Dertis.Giroux2: nada.
613-949-5728

 

From: McLaughlin, Julie (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, January 05, 2016 10:52 AM

To: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Lively, Cassandra (PS/SP)
Cc: Assadi2, Bahman (PS/SP)

Subject: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Good morning,
{ hope you had good Holidays.
Would it be possible to provide us with the following information and documentation:

.1) Anupdate on the Kanishka Project - Key achievements to date (an update on the Project Highlights that you
provided ~ doc #1308963), in particular:

Total amount of investment to date;

# of total projects and # of projects completed;

# of workshops and research symposiums ete. hosted;

# of websites etc. developed;

# of research studies contracted directly by PS, including # of studies that are completed;

# of student projects funded;

# and nature of other events hosted;

Some background and more concrete performance information on the Community of Science and

Practice, if available;

The “community of science and practice” mentioned in the key highlights document is not a formal

organization, but more the informal academic/research network that was created through Kanishka.

\

Fame aoge

000113

000083
Document Released Under the Access to
Dissimmdit Ratiddaddunides thé Algese tovertu
defiderbation Akad Dovartiertodivalgue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information
i. Atopy of the ICSR study entitled “The Syria Conflict: the Evolution of al Qaeda and other Militant
Movements after the Arab Spring”; and perhaps, all reports that are not publicly available;
j. Any other documents that potentially discusses the need for having an Initiative such as Kanishka,

including any new MCs or other inception documents.
2) We would also like to get the following information on various management committees:
We would appreciate if you could provide this information by January 15.
Please let us know if you have any questions.

Thank you

Julie McLaughlin

Evaluator | Evaluatrice

Internal Audit and Evaiuation Directorate | Direction générale de la vérification interme et.de l'évaluation
Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Tel./Tél.: 613-998-2973

Julie. mclaughlin@canada.ca

000114

000084
Document Released Under the Access to
: Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
DUPLICATE de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Pages 115 to/a 146
are duplicates of
sont des duplicatas des

pages 6 to/a 37

000085
Document Released Under the Access to
[Biocuménh ales Sect Lindor thir dlcaeseiteertu
dofostbation Attd Recitiaftidhatigaé en vertu
de la Lot sur l'accés a l'information

| Allen, Juliet (PS/SP)

From: Giroux2, Denis (PS/SP)

Sent: ‘Friday, January 15, 2016 3:31 PM

To: McLaughlin, Julie (PS/SP)

Cc Assadi2, Bahman (PS/SP); Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Martin, Connie (PS/SP)

Subject: RE: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Attachments: ICSR Draft Final Report.doc PS-SP-#1730990-1-KPCP - List of Events.DOCX; PS-SP-#
1308963-4A-KPCP - Project Highlights.DOCX; PS-SP-#1731017-v1- ;

KPCP_Working_Groups_-_Table_of_Meetings.DOCX
Hi Julie,

Here is some information related to that request, which should respond to the bulk of your questions. In the next few
days, Brett may be bringing new comments and will provide the remainder of the requested information.

So, I’ve attached the Kanishka Highlights document (of which you had an earlier version), which should respond to items
1A to 1G; a list of all Kanishka events (supplement for item 1G); and another attachment that contains the info you need
for item 2. ~

For item 1H (on the Community of Science and Practice):

The Kanishka Project aims to increase the knowledge base about terrorism and counter-terrorism, but goes .
beyond simply studying terrorism, as many of the studies are developing and testing new approaches to support
more effective policies, tools and resources for law enforcement and people on the front lines.

The initiative has aimed to rapidly and significantly expand research capacity outside government, ensure that
focus is on relevant questions, and make the results available for those who need them, in the right form and at
the right time. This capacity-building emphasis was designed to generate important new knowledge in the short
term, and create a sufficiently strong core and momentum for ongoing, long-term improvement.

Prior to the Kanishka Project, a fundamental problem was that there were few scholars focusing on relevant
questions, those involved were largely isolated from one another, and the research was of limited interest to
practitioners. There was no community of science for researchers focusing on counter-terrorism relevant to the
Canadian context. To improve the knowledge base in support of more effective counter-terrorism, however, a
community of practice is also important, reflecting the parallel idea that there needs to be a critical mass of
perspectives from policy, program and civil society circles to share lessons and challenge assumptions.

’ For item | (Syria Conflict), there are several deliverables. We have a draft of the final report as well; it should be
published late this month or sometime next month. As part of this study they have also published:
fi

 

- This web re resource: https: ilestorelgnfighters. wordpress. nee

More info to follow, some of which you'll receive over Dragon.

Best, f

000147

000086
Document Released Under the Access to

IDissurndarRersaseecunusttina mesine tovertu
defdirhation Alas Gscurhioke Uivaligue en vertu
de la Loi sur l'aceés a l'information

Denis

Denis.Giroux2 @canada.ca
613-949-5728

 

From: McLaughlin, Julie (PS/SP)

Sent: Tuesday, January 05, 2016 10:52 AM

To; Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Lively, Cassandra (PS/SP)
Cc: Assadi2, Bahman (PS/SP)

Subject: Kanishka Evaluation - Request for documents

Good marning, ©
| hope you had good Holidays.
Would it be possible to provide us with the following information and documentation:

1) An update on the Kanishka Project — Key achievements to date (an update on the Project Highlights that you
provided —doc #1308963), in particular: . .

Total amount of investment to date;

# of total projects and # of projects completed;

# of workshops and research symposiums etc. hosted;

# of websites etc. developed;

# of research studies contracted directly by PS, including # of studies that are completed;

# of student projects funded;

# and nature of other events hosted;

Some background and more concrete performance information on the Community of Science and

Practice, if available;

A copy of the ICSR study entitled “The Syria Conflict: the Evolution of al Qaeda and other Militant

Movements after the Arab Spring’; and perhaps, all reports that are not publicly available;

j. ' Any other documents that potentially discusses the need for having an Initiative such as Kanishka,
including any new MCs or other inception documents.

FR >*PAN Te

-

2) We would also like to get the following information on various management committees:

 

 

 

 

Working Group Frequency of meeting # of times has met over | Are there records of
the past five years decisions {can we have
access to these, if
required)
Steering Committee
Working Group
Advisory Group

 

 

 

 

 

 

We would appreciate if you could provide this information by January 15.
Please let us know if you have any questions.

Thank you

Julie McLaughlin

Evaluator | Evaluatrice ;
intemal Audit and Evatuation Directorate | Direction générale de la vérification inteme et de l'évaiuation

2
000148

000087
Document Released Under the Access to
(DeematatRakaheruncerile Weeeeaiee tu
datétrhation Acta @souribin anvaliges en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés 2 l'information

Public Safety Canada | Sécurité publique Canada

Tel./T6l.: 613-898-2973 :

Julie. mclaughlin@canada.ca

000149

000088
Document Released Under the Access to
DUPLICATE Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Pages 150 to/a 181
are duplicates of
sont des duplicatas des

pages 6 to/a 37

000089
Document Released Under the Access to

InfavathantRblddsed Urndbri tid decess tortu

deliddeniation! Act éBDaclinfentditaigué en vertu
de la Loi sur 'accés 4 l'information

productions and sophisticated Twitter campaigns.’ The impression created is that of a group of
skillful manipulators brainwashing their helpless subjects into becoming supporters of Islamic
State and, ultimately, making their way to Syria. Yet much of the research that members of our
team have conducted points in different directions:

¢ Anearlier ICSR report uncovered the role of ‘disseminators’ and ‘cheerleaders’ — online
activists who are often Western baséd and have no formal ties to Islamic State;°

e Twitter campaigns generate less interest than is commonly believed,®

Online propaganda : alone rarely creates the kind of commitment that turns sympatisers
into actual recruits.’

i
In short, none of our earlier findings support the notion of top-down recruitment that so often
dominates the news coverage.

Approach

In trying to resolve the contradiction between conventional wisdom and our own, earlier
empirical findings, we took a radically different approach from existing reports on the Islamic
State and social media. Unlike everyone else, the principal focus of our investigation was not the
Islamic State’s online campaign — which we believe has been given an excessive amounts of
coverage — but the recruits themselves.

In other words, we were not so much interested in what Islamic State put out, but — rather — what
the wannabe fighters took in. We wanted to understand how they use the internet, and what parts
of the internet, if any, caused them to join up. In doing so, what we sought to avoid was the kind
of circular logic whereby researchers focus on the Islamic State’s social media campaign, ignore
everything else, and — then — conclude that it must have been the social media campaign that

prompted people to join.

The reason we were able to do this is the groundbreaking primary research that ICSR has
conducted on Syrian foreign fighters. Starting in 2012, we have now collected nearly 700 online

* See, for example, Aya Batrawy, ‘ISIS Outpaces Arab Governments in Social Media War’, Associated Press, 21
September 2014; Patrick Kingsley, Who is behind ISIS’s terrifying online propaganda operation?, Guardian, 23 June
- 2014; Shiv Malik and Sandra Laville, ‘Isis in duel with Twitter and YouTube to spread extremist propaganda’,
Guardian, 24 September 2014; Charlotte Meredith, ‘ISIS YouTube Video’, Huffington Post, 26 June 2014; Shane and
Hubbard, 4SIS Displaying’, op. cit.

5 Joseph Carter, Shiraz Maher, and Peter R. Neumann, #Greenbirds: Measuring Importance and Influence in Syrian

. foreign F rg Networks (London: ICSR, 2014); available at htt tip: Hest info/we-content/uploads/2014/04/\CSR-

 

Shes Maher nd Joseph Carter, ‘Analyzing the ISIS Twitter Storm’, War on the Rocks, 24 lune 14; available at
http. waront om/2014/06/analyzing-the-isis-twitter-storm/.
“all Fisher and Nice Prucha, ‘ISIS Is Winning the Online Jihad Against the West’, Daily Beast, 1 October 2014;
y ! jih

 

west.html.

000007

000009
DUPLICATE Document Released Under the Access to
Information Act / Document divulgué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Pages 182 to/a 187
are duplicates of
sont des duplicatas des

pages 104 to/a 109

000090
s.19(1)

Document Released Under the Access to
Disuunstint Roteddecdou nitar tthe Alesse tovertu
ésfoorhation Abt¢ Biscartied divalgueé en vertu
de la Lot sur l'accés a l'information

Allen, Juliet (PS/SP) , s.19(1)

From rte Newnan
Sent: Friday, November :

- To: Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP); Kubicek, Brett (PS/SP)
Subject: Fwd:
Attachments: report canada internet.docx
Dear Brett,
I hope this message finds you well.

I realise this has been about a week overdue, but Paris - once again - made life very hectic over here.

_ Attached is a first draft of our online report. It's way longer than expected and still requires some editing and

addition of Appendices, but it should give you a good sense that the product is in hand. It goes against much of
the coriventional wisdom about online radicalisation, and should create a fair amount of healthy debate. We
anticipate publication in January.

Our online portal on foreign fighters has now been launched. There are currently about 500 items that can be
looked at and searched, with 500 more to follow. The link is here:

I hope this provides you with the content needed to get the final sign off for the rest of our grant. If there's any
problem, please just let me know.

Once again, many thanks for all your support over. the years. I hope we can remain involved, as we are certain
to continue working on this.

Best wishes,
Peter

000188

* 000091
Document Released Under the Access to

Inifeeoniont Relddeea wader theikuvece tee tu

dinforbaation Aet¢ Dpouiiriataietigué en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Peers over Propaganda:
Online Radicalisation among British Foreign Fighters

By Nick Kaderbhai, Shiraz Maher, and Peter Neumann

CONTENT

Introduction p.l
Islamic State vs. Wannabe : Fighters p.5
The Pains of Inaction p. 12
Fighting Communities p. 19
On and Offline p- 26
Conclusion p. 32
Introduction

The impact of online communication on processes of radicalisation has been vigorously debated
for years. Extremist groups were among the first and most enthusiastic adopters of the internet —
a medium which they believed was free of government control and censorship, allowing for their
_ unfiltered message to be heard by supporters and sympathisers all over the world.' Nowadays,
there is practically no extremist group that doesn’t have an online presence — though th their
activities vary in degree and sophistication.

Since the beginning of the Syrian conflict in 2011, jihadist groups are widely thought to have
broken new ground. Their use of social media is believed to be massive and sophisticated. For
‘Islamic State’, it has come to be seen as a central and distinctive feature of its modus operandi,
helping the group intimidate and manipulate their enemies, as well as radicalize and recruit
potential supporters.’ It is the latter — the role of online communications in radicalization and
recruitment - that is the subject of this report. What impact does social media have on wannabe
foreign fighters from Western countries? How do they use the internet, and — most importantly —
what makes them join up?

In much of the recent media coverage, the Islamic State’s online campaign is presented as
strongly coordinated and centrally organized, reaching a global audience through high end video

 

* Peter Neumann, Countering Online Radicalization in America {Washington DC: Bipartisan Policy Center, 2012), pp.

"15-17; 7; available ot htto://bipartisanpolicy.ore/wn-

? See Gabriel vein, “New eee ‘and New Media (Washington Dt DC: Woodrow Wilson Center, 2014); available
at http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/STIP_ 140501 new _terrorism_F.pdf. :
3 See, for example, Rose Powell, ‘Cats and Kalashnikovs: Behind the ISIL social media strategy’, Sydney Morning
Herald, 24 June 2014; Steve Rose, ‘The Isis propaganda war: a hi~tech media jihad’, Guardian, 7 October 2014;
Scott Shane and Ben Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying a Deft Command of Varied Media’, New York Times, 30 August 2014.

 

1

000189

000092
Document Released Under the Access to

InfdecatientRbledsed Undbrlel Access tor tu
deliickiiation!actEbdclinten diivi@lqueé en vertu
* de la Loi sur I'accés a l'information

productions and sophisticated Twitter campaigns.* The impression created is that of a group of
skillful manipulators brainwashing their helpless subjects into becoming supporters of Islamic
State and, ultimately, making their way to Syria. Yet much of the research that members of our
team have conducted points in different directions:

e Anearlier ICSR report uncovered the role of ‘disseminators’ and ‘cheerleaders’ — online
activists who are often Western based and have no formal ties to Islamic State;*

e Twitter campaigns generate less interest than is commonly believed,®

e Online propaganda ¢ alone rarely creates the kind of commitment that turns sympathisers
into actual recruits,’

In short, none of our earlier findings support the notion of top-down recruitment that so often
dominates the news coverage.

Approach

In trying to resolve the contradiction between conventional wisdom and our own, earlier
empirical findings, we took a radically different approach from existing reports on the Islamic
State and social media. Unlike everyone else, the principal focus of our investigation was not the
Islamic State’s online campaign — which we believe has been given an excessive amounts of
coverage — but the recruits themselves,

In other words, we were not so much interested in what Islamic State put out, but — rather — what
the wannabe fighters took in. We wanted to understand how they use the internet, and what parts
of the internet, if any, caused them to join up. In doing so, what we sought to avoid was the kind
of circular logic whereby researchers focus on the Islamic State’s social media campaign, ignore
everything else, and — then — conclude that it must have been the social media campaign that
prompted people to join. ,

The reason we were able to do this is the groundbreaking primary research that ICSR has
conducted on Syrian foreign fighters. Starting in 2012, we have now collected nearly 700 online

“See, for example, Aya Batrawy, ‘ISIS Outpaces Arab Governments in Social Media War’, Associated Press, 21
September 2014; Patrick Kingsley, Who is behind ISIS’s terrifying online propaganda operation?, Guardian, 23 June
2014; Shiv Malik and Sandra Laville, ‘isis in duel with. Twitter and YouTube to spread extremist propaganda’,
Guardian, 24 September 2014; Charlotte Meredith, ‘ISIS YouTube Video’, Huffington Post, 26 June 2014; Shane and
Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying’, op. cit.

5 Joseph Carter, Shiraz Maher, and Peter R. Neumann, #Greenbirds: Measuring Importance and influence in Syrian
Foreign Fighter Networks (London: ICSR, 2014); available at http://icsr.info/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/ICSR-
Report-Greenbirds-Measuring-| ce-and-Infleunce-in-Syrian-Foreign-Fighter-N rks.pdf.

5 Shiraz Maher and Joseph Carter, ‘Analyzing the ISIS Twitter Storm’, Wer on the Rocks, 24 June 2014; available at
b ron .com/201 | mi i rm/.

7 Ali Fisher and Nieg Prucha, ‘ISIS Is winning the Online Jihad Against the West’, Daily Beast, 1 October 2014;
available at 3 il inst-the-

west.html.

 

000190

000093
Document Released Under the Access to
(DesmalarRebabar wnat He Yeesengertu
dafistnalisH AaowBecumMBit@nllalie en vertu
de la Loi sur l'accés a information

social media profiles of Western citizens or residents who have gone to Syria and Iraq to join
Sunni militant groups, mainly Jabhat al Nusra and, especially, the Islamic State. In addition, we
have communicated with nearly 100 active fighters — in some cases repeatedly and over the
course of several months — and carried out fieldwork in the Turkish region from where most of
them enter Syria.

The use of Palantir, a powerful analytics platform, enabled us to make sense of this data and
generate a small sample of 10 male British fighters for whom we possess sufficient online data
for the period before their departure in order to understand their personal trajectories of
radicalisation and recruitment, It is those fighters whose Tweets, comments, and Facebook
comments will feature prominently in the main part of this report.

Findings

What we found was new in some respects — and not so new in others:

e THE PAINS OF INACTION: One of the novelties is the impact of massive amounts of
conflict-related, often highly emotional, content that wannabe fighters are now
exposed to. As extremists have populated mainstream platforms, especially Twitter, it
is no longer possible — or necessary — to separate between ‘moderate’, radical and

. extremist sources. For many of the Western fighters, the sustained (and cumulative)
effect seems to have been an overwhelming feeling of guilt — an emotional pain based_

’ on the stark contrast between one’s own comfort and the enormous suffering and
injustices experienced by one’s ‘brothers and sisters’ in Syria.

e FIGHTING COMMUNITIES: Another new phenomenon is the direct virtual contact

between wannabes and active fighters on the frontlines. In contrast to previous °
- conflicts, supporters are no longer limited to watching videos and reading statements

but can interact with fighters in real time through platforms like Facebook, Ask.fm,
Twitter, and private messaging applications. This means that fighters and wannabes
can form virtual social communities, build trust and commitment, and — especially .
where wannabes and active fighters knew each other previously — create a powerful
sense of moral and personal obligation to join the fight.

© ONAND OFFLINE: What’s not new is the interplay between on- and offline
interactions which has occurred in a majority of the cases we have examined. The
internet may help to facilitate contacts and provide inspiration, but people’s actual
decision to go and their subsequent transfer into Syria tends to be preceded by a
significant amount of face to face interaction. This is important for the wannabe
fighters ‘who require strong, personal bonds to become involved in ‘high risk activism,
but it is equally important for the militant groups who want applicants to provide

‘references’, also known as tazkya.

000191

000094
Document ahaa pndet the Access to

pea RGF Huis WIG. gp vertu
jon a aun en vertu

- de la Loi sur l'accés a linformation

Our findings go against conventional wisdom. Based on our research, it was peers — —not,
propaganda — that convinced the British fighters in our sample to go to Syria. The social media
campaigns of militant groups like Islamic State may have been important but not decisive.

This does not mean that the internet didn’t matter. Open-source, widely accessible content
contributed to people’s sense of guilt and helplessness. Virtual contacts with active fighters made
them have a stake and, in many cases, created a strong sense of social obligation. Ultimately,
however, it wasn’t the online environment as such — but the extent to which it created peer to
peer contacts — that facilitated the decision to go.

The report begins with a chapter contrasting the Islamic State’s social media campaign with the
ways in which British foreign fighters have actually used online communications. This is
followed by three small chapters describing the key dynamics and processes that we believe are
significant: the first deals with the ‘pains of action’ caused by the prolonged exposure to, and
involvement with, conflict related content; the second looks at ‘fighting communities’ involving
wannabe and actual fighters; and, finally, we examine the back and forth between on- and offline
communications that tends to precede, and facilitate, the decision to go to Syria.

We are confident that our report makes an important contribution to the fast evolving field of
research on online radicalisation. It builds on, and develops, long-established notions like Doug
McAdam’s ‘high risk activism’® and Marc Sageman’s ‘sense of moral outrage’,” while rejecting
the increasingly popular idea that it is the internet — and the internet alone — that radicalizes :
people. To paraphrase Mark Juergensmeyer, the internet is not the problem, but aspects of it may
well be problematic.’°

 

® Doug McAdam, ‘Recruitment to High-Risk Activism: The Case of Freedom Summer’, American Journal of

, Sociology, 92(1) (1986), pp. 64-90.
Marc Sageman, Leaderless Jihad: Terror Networks in the Twenty-First Century (Philadelphia, PA: University of

Pennsylvania Press, 2008), pp. 73-6.
2° See Mark Juergensmeyer, ‘Religion as a Cause of Terrorism’ in Louise Richardson (ed.}, The Reots of Terrorism

(London and New York: Routledge, 2006), pp. 133-144:

000192

000095
Document Released Under the Access to

RT Reeadee UE tHY Abs e aoe tu
dhfderhation Abt? Oocarhien unaliyue en vertu
de la Lol sur l'aceés a l'information

Islamic State vs. Wannabe Fighters

The social media campaigns of jihadist groups in the Syrian/Iraqi conflict are extensive — but are
they also effective? Many experts and commentators believe that — based on size and
sophistication alone — they must be good at recruiting people. They describe in glowing terms
Islamic State’s ‘really effective brand strategy’,!! its ‘planning and professionalism’ ,'? the

‘cinematic quality’. of its videos, and how the group ‘is using every contemporary mode of
messaging to recruit fighters’.!* The assumption i is that online exposure — and online exposure _
alone — makes people join.

The only problem: there is no evidence to support this claim; no information on how wannabe
fighters are actually using the internet; and no discussion of what other influences may have
caused them to go to Syria.

This chapter offers two perspectives on jihadist internet use in the Syrian/Iraqi conflict. One is
top-down: the Islamic State’s online campaign which — we are constantly told — is successful at
recruiting foreign fighters. The other is bottom up: the use of the internet by fighters and
wannabe fighters themselves. What emerges is a stark contrast: while the Islamic State’s social
media campaign is indeed massive and sophisticated, it is not as top down and centrally
coordinated as often alleged, nor does most of it impact on wannabe foreign fighters during the
process of joining up.

How the Islamic State Uses the Internet

The purpose of the Islamic State’s social media campaign is to intimidate and to inspire. 15
Regarding intimidation, the Islamic State has proven to be powerful and innovative, be it by
communicating threats, demoralizing Western audiences, or by ‘sowing terror, disunion, and
defection’ among its enemies. There is evidence, for example, that the group’s military offensive
in the summer of 2014 was coordinated with its social media efforts, forcing populations to flee
their villages and compelling Iraqi soldiers to abandon their positions out of fear they might be
caught, tortured and executed.'°

Less clear is the extent to which the Islamic State’s social media campaign has succeeded at
making people join. This is not for lack of trying. The Islamic State produces more
‘inspirational’ output than other jihadist groups and has been the only one to consistently target

 

n 1, 5am Thieiman, ‘ISIS’ Sinister Media Strategy’, AdWeek, 10 September 2014.
‘Kingsley, ‘Who Is Behind’, op. cit.
*8 Spencer Ackerman, ‘ISIS Online Propaganda Outpacing U.S. Counter-efforts, Ex-Officials Warn’, Guardian, 22
September 2014.
* Shane and Hubbard, ‘ISIS Displaying’, op. cit. .
5 Alessandro Bonzio, ‘ISIS’ use of social media isn’t surprising: its digital strategy is’, Huffington Post, 15 September

2014.
1¢ Emerson Brooking, ‘The ISIS Propaganda Machine Is Horrifying and Effective: How Does It Work?’, Defense in

Depth, Council on Foreign Relations, 31 December 2014; available at

 

how-does-it-work/. Also George Packer, ‘A Friend Flees the Horror of ISIS’, The New Yorker, 6 August 2014.

000193

000096
Document Released Under the Access to
IDosinAbArribaS eer Uader Hb dbees teertu
dafothation AarDecuriaft anaiges en vertu
de fa Loi sur l'accés a l'information

Western audiences in their own, European languages. All of this output is professionally made
and well presented, demonstrating members’ skill at using the latest equipment, editing and
graphic software.’” Al Hayat Media Centre, one of the group’s media production entities, has
released a whole range of media products, including feature length documentaries like Flames of
War, shorter videos highlighting the foreigners’ ‘good works’; interviews with Western fighters;
translations of Arabic language content; and — not least ~ the group’s online magazine Dabiq
which has been published in half a dozen languages.'*

Another striking facet is the group’s dissemination strategy. The Islamic State maintains multiple
accounts on practically every major social media platform, including Facebook, Instagram, and
Ask.fm. On Twitter, it is represented by various parts of the leadership, provincial commands,

and hundreds of individual fighters who maintain their own, personal accounts. In addition, the
group has repeatedly ‘hijacked’ popular hashtags (for example, ‘#WorldCup’) and created
automatized fake accounts to promote its own (for instance, ‘#AllEyesonISIS’). For a brief

period, it even had its own Android app — ~ Dawn of Glad Tidings — through which it sent

_ messages via subscribers’ Twitter accounts.”” The cumulative effect is both practical and
psychological. It enables the Islamic State to swamp the internet, making takedowns more

difficult and less effective, while at the same time paenifying' the group’s message and '
creating the perception of momentum and strength.”! ,

What’s more, the group is conscious that it has multiple audiences who need to be reached and
spoken to differently. Pictures of executions or military victories are used to increase the group’s
visibility and create a sense of shock and terror among non-jihadist audiences, while
sympathizers are additionally: exposed to ‘softer’ messages articulating the idea of an Islamic
utopia. Potential recruits, therefore, will see the group’s excessively violent side but also pictures
of foreign fighters distributing food, adjudicating disputes, manning local police forces, or —
indeed — holding kittens and showing off pots of Nutella.”

Similarly, content and messages ate segmented according to language, often incorporating local
references and featuring * ‘role models’ from the respective countries and/or language groups at
which they are targeted.” This system of customization, along with its capabilities in production
and dissemination, are indicative of the group’s sophistication — resulting in a campaign that, i in
the words of J.M. Berger, ‘would put American social media marketing gurus to shame’.”

Cheerleaders, Disseminators, and Fanboys

 

w” Kingsley ‘Whe is behind’, op. cit.
*® See Olivia Becker, ‘ISIS has a really slick and sophisticated media department’, Vice News, 12 July 2014; ‘New ISIS

Media Company Addresses English, German, and French Speaking Westerners’, MEMAI, 23 June 2014.

1° For a sample of Islamic State related Twitter accounts and activity, see Erin M. Saltman and Charlie Winter,
islamic State: The Changing Face of Modern sihadism (London: Quilliam, 2014), pp. 66-70.

IM Berger, ‘How ISIS Games Twitter’, The Atlantic, 16 June 2014. See also Alessandro Bonzio, ‘ISIS’ use of social
media isn’t surprising: its digital strategy is’, Huffington Post, 15 September 2014.

71 Berger, ‘How ISIS Games’, op. cit.

? Ibid.

” Ibid.

24 Berger, ‘How ISIS Games’, op. cit.

000194

000097
Document Released Under the Access to

(Psst barat unusy ull ube tel
Grtéth Stan Act 7 SScuriBieaHANGUB en vertu
de la Loi sur I'aceés & l'information

This is not to say, however, that the group’s entire online presence is top down and centrally
coordinated. In our #Greenbirds report, we showed that the most influential spiritual authorities -
among Western foreign fighters had no formal association with Islamic State or other jihadist
groups, nor were they located in Syria or Iraq (one was based in the United States, the other was

' Australian). They served as spiritual ‘cheerleaders’ who had taken it upon themselves to promote
and justify the idea of foreign fighting, typically through the internet, and emerged as important

— albeit wholly independent — sources of influence.”* :

Our report also highlighted the role of so-called ‘disseminators’ who are key to pushing the
groups’ messages to their Western recipients. Among the Western foreign fighters in our
database, the most popular Twitter accounts were not the groups’ official accounts (none of them
even made it into the Top 10), but those of independent disseminators like ‘Shami Witness’ who
were broadly supportive of the Islamic State, justified its actions and re-tweeted its material, but
also produced their own. output (for example, memes), promoted unorthodox sources of
information, and — occasionally — disagreed with the party line.?° Seven years ago, Jarret
Brachman coined the term ‘jihobbyist’ to describe such individuals, recognizing that, in a vast,
growing and seemingly anarchical structure like the internet, they were essential to ‘[moving]
forward the Jihadist agenda’.”’

Not least, there are hundreds, if not thousands, of so-called ‘fanboys’ — enthusiastic supporters of - ~
the Islamic State who populate Facebook and Twitter and spend considerable amounts of time
discussing the latest developments and re-tweeting the pictures, memes and other material

published by fighters and disseminators. Communicating with other, seemingly more prominent
members gives them a sense of being part of the movement and having a role to play — even if

' their direct involvement with jihadist groups is minimal. Like the cheerleaders and

disseminators, they are supporters, not members, and they receive no explicit direction. Yet their
‘contribution is essential to making the group visible and effective. Acting like a swarm, they are
what ICSR research fellow Nico Prucha called the ‘media mujahideen’.

How Wannabe Fighters Use the Intemet .

For our analysis of how wannabe fighters use the internet, we examined the online postings of
the 10 British fighters in our sample between the first time they had publicly contemplated the
idea of going to Syria and their eventual departure. We didn’t, therefore, look at their entire — |
radicalisation trajectory (many had, in fact, been involved in extremist causes long before the
Syrian conflict) but narrowly focused on the process of joining up,”* which could last from a few
weeks to several months. Our data consisted of Tweets and Facebook posts — in some cases also

* Carter, 4#Greenbirds, op cit., pp. 18-28.

*, bid. pp. 15-18.
2 Jarret Brachman, Globol Jihadism: Theory and | Practice (London and New York: Routledge, 2009), p. 19.

28 Ali Fisher and Nico Prucha, ‘ISIS is winning the online jihad against the West’, Daily Beast, 1 October 2014.
25 For a discussion of concepts like ‘recruitment’ and ‘joining up’ in the context of jihadist radicalisation, see Peter
R. Neumann, ‘Joining Al-Qaeda: Jihadist Recruitment in Europe’, Adelphi Paper #399, International institute for

Strategic Studies, January 2009.

000195

000098
Document Released Under the Access to
Document Réldashd Cindenthiadgesetovertu
infdoniatiomAchtDecuntentdivaiged en vertu
de la Loi sur faceés a l'information

blog and Ask.fin entries — which we studied with a view to understanding their use of online .
platforms, behaviors, interactions, and changes in attitude.

For this section, we aimed to create a first — and, arguably, very broad — impression of how the
wannabe fighters in our sample have used the internet. To understand change and innovation, we
compared our empirical findings to earlier research about jihadist online behavior. Crucially, we
then looked for evidence of potential crossovers between fighters’ use of the internet and the
online campaigns of jihadist groups like the Islamic State. The result is a first sketch of wannabe
foreign fighters’ online ecosystem which — in our view — consists of three pillars: use e of open
platforms; personal outreach; and ‘fanboy socialization’.

Open Platforms

Our first observation is wannabe fighters’ widespread use of open, mainstream platforms like
Facebook, Twitter, and — more recently - Telegram. All the wannabe fighters in our sample had
such accounts which they used extensively to discuss political and religious issues, as well as

their attitudes towards the conflict, Western society, and the idea of making ijra (that is, going

to Syria).*° The openness of these platforms didn’t deter them. At the time of observation, even
sensitive discussions were frequently conducted via unlocked Twitter accounts, and Facebook
pages remained relatively open (though this may have changed in recent months). In this respect, -
the British wannabes in our sample were typical of many Western fighters who maintain

accounts on at least one of the platforms.

The use of open platforms stands in marked contrast to earlier periods when the majority of
jihadist sympathizers populated stand-alone websites, so-called ‘forums’. The forums were often
password-protected, and people had to be introduced by existing members or spend considerable
periods gaining ‘credibility’ in order to gain access to closed discussions.*! The move to open
platforms has lowered the threshold to becoming involved in the jihadist milieu. Wannabes no
longer need to seek out forums and subject themselves to a complex process of admission. They
are able to ‘dabble’ in jihadist discussions without having to fully commit to the cause, or
confront potentially troubling questions about legality which signing up to a closed forum might
raise. ; .

Another consequence is that wannabe fighters are exposed to a wider range of material, allowing
for greater eclecticism and, by definition, reducing the relative impact of any one particular
source. Among the memes, pictures, articles, and videos that wannabe jihadists posted on their
accounts was output from mainstream television channels, non-jihadist religious sources,
NGO’s, and think tanks. What’s more, the explicitly jihadist content originated with fighters,

*° The concept of hijra relates to the Prophet Mohammed’s journey from Mecca to Medina, and is frequently
invoked by jihadists to justify (and mandate) the migration to a foreign land where Muslims face injustice or

oppression. See x00
31 For an overview of the jihadist discussion forum ‘scene’, see Mohammed Ali Musawi, Cheering Jor Osama: How

Jihadists Use Internet Discussion Forums (London: Quilliam, 2010), esp. Chapter 1; available at
di

 

use-the-internet-forums.pdf

000196

000099
