a ea ete) ery
Sean {1 G2 fgrtu de la LAL
FI danger the ATIA

 

 

 

 

   

PTET a a iemsit) Sening
GOUVERNEMENT. GOVERNMENT,
mn } ae ERR pit oes rs Strain) -4
— fs aa CANADIENS. CANADIANS.

14 aodt 2017 / August 14, 2017

/

 

MO BRIEFING
DEFERRED PROSECUTION AGREEMENT

000001
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI

 

Released under the ATIA *

Ba ER ER TR SE CE ee ee eee ee cect ste

SECRET ’

expectations around transparency, open and citizen-centered government in procurement practices.
Over time, Canada has established a strong framework to support integrity in its procurement and real
property transactions, with strong governance, codes of conduct, fairness monitoring, audits, financial -
controls, internal investigations and, more recently, the Federal Contracting Fraud Tip Line.

In addition to these tools, Canada administers a debarment regime that has undergone.a series of
changes to improve its rigour and broaden its application, beginning with the introduction of the .
Integrity Framework in 2012.

Integrity Framework

In July 2012, Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC), the main contracting arm of the
Government of Canada, regrouped many of its oversight measures into a formal debarment regime,
‘the Integrity Framework. The Framework applied to PSPC contracts and real property agreements
and expanded on the existing Code of Conduct for Public Procurement. In addition to the offences
included in the Code (i.e. corruption, collusion, bid-rigging, fraud committed against her Majesty, etc.)
a supplier could also be rendered ineligible (term used by the Government of Canada in place of
debarred) for fraud, money laundering, participation in activities of criminal organizations, income and.
excise tax evasion, bribing a foreign public official and offences related to drugs.

Later that same year, PSPC removed the leniency exemption from ihe Framework, which previously
allowed an applicant to come forward, cooperate and plead guilty in exchange for lenient treatment in
sentencing, and introduced a public interest exception.

In February 2014 nine new offences were added to the Framework including:

* extortion « fraudulent manipulation of stock exchange
e bribery of judicial officers transactions

e bribery of officers e prohibited insider trading

e secret commissions e forgery of other offences resembling forgery
e criminal breach of contract _ © falsification of books and documents

The ineligibility period for a supplier convicted of or having pleaded guilty to an Integrity Framework
offence was ten years with no exceptions. In addition, suppliers who were convicted of a similar foreign
offence were also debarred from contract award. Finally, suppliers were required to bind their
subcontractors to the same terms and conditions listed in their contract or lease agreement with PSPC.

Integrity Regime

In July 2015, the Government of Canada introduced an updated Integrity Regime to foster ethical
business practices, ensure due process and uphold the public trust. Unlike its predecessor, the Regime
applies to contracts and real property agreements awarded by all federal departments and agencies
under Schedule |, I.1 and Il of the Financial Administration Act, with some exceptions. This drastically
expanded the scope of application. The Regime is articulated in the Ineligibility and Suspension Policy

and Integrity clauses.

Key features of the Regime are as follows:

‘PRA NSE NN te a AE RRA AER PRS ME TEES TE

Public Services and Procurement Canada ' page 6
000010
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

ee SECRET

.6 A supplier convicted of a listed offence in Canada or a similar offence abroad is ineligible for a period |
of ten years to enter into a contract or real property agreement with the government.

e Asupplier can apply to have their ineligibility period reduced by up to five years if they address the
causes of the conduct that led to ineligibility.

e Asupplier is not automatically penalized for the actions of an affiliate | in which they had no
involvement.

e A supplier may be suspended for a period of up to 18 months if it has been charged with a listed
offence or has admitted guilt. This period may be extended as judicial processes proceed.
Procedures incorporate consideration of due process.

Provides for the use of independent expert third-party assessments, and administrative agreements
that specify required corrective actions and ensure their effectiveness by monitoring compliance.

In April 2016, an updated version of the Jneligibility and Suspension Policy and integrity clauses were
released. While there were no changes to the Integrity Regime itself, the policy and clauses were -

simplified in response to feedback from client departments and agencies, as well as the supplier
community. The clauses now incorporate the policy by reference into solicitation documents and

resulting contracts and real property agreements.

In order to foster transparency and accountability, the ineligibility and suspension list is publicly available
on the Integrity Regime website and the Government does regularly report on the activities and .

achievements of the Integrity Regime.

Principles guiding Canada’s government-wide Integrity Regime

Through various efforts to protect the integrity of federal procurement and real property transactions, the
Government of Canada has been guided by the following five principles:

e Safeguard the expenditure of public funds within procurement and real property transactions;
' @ Conduct business in an open, fair, transparent, accountable and cost-efficient manner;
e Ensure rigour and due process without imposing undue administrative burden on suppliers or the
Government of Canada; _
e Promote ethical conduct by suppliers within the marketplace; and,
_« Ensure consistent government-wide application while preserving operational effi iclencies.

What we have heard to date

' Since the introduction of the Integrity Regime in 2015, the Government of Canada has engaged major
industry associations, professional organizations (i.e., law firms and accounting firms), suppliers, and
civil society groups to solicit feedback on implementation, and provide clarification on elements of the
Regime. Reaction has been generally positive, however some changes have been suggested to strike a
better balance between holding wrongdoers accountable for their actions, incenting early detection and
reporting when problems arise, and allowing some discretion to mitigate negative impacts on innocent
parties. This includes proposed changes to timelines and criteria associated with ineligibility and_
suspension; increased discretion; possible expansion of the scope of the Regime; and, the potential for

legislation.

 

aN 88

Public Services and Procurement Canada page 7

000011
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAl
Released under the ATIA *

ssa neeleghine: ociecenep nce ano ee

 

 

 

 

SECRET! *

Possible enhancements ;
After five years of experience administering a debarment regime, and based on feedback received and
best practices from other jurisdictions, the following area series of possible enhancements to.the
Integrity Regime for consideration. Each concept includes a short description of what the. enhancement
could look like in practice, followed by questions for input.

1. Time periods associated with ineligibility and suspension

Concerns have been raised regarding the time periods associated with suspension and ineligibility. For
example, the ten-year period of ineligibility has been criticized as being punitive, disproportional, and not
aligned with international best practices. Questions remain as to whether these time periods should be’
reduced, or if they should be made discretionary and based on the nature and context of the offence.

Under the current Regime, discretion within the determination process is limited, as much of the Policy is
rules-based. For example, if a supplier is convicted of one of the listed offences in Canada or of a similar

_ offence abroad within the last three years, the supplier will automatically be ineligible to be awarded a
federal contract or real property agreement for a period of ten years. There is some discretion when
dealing with a conviction of an affiliate in that the supplier may be determined to be ineligible; however,
only if they directed, influenced, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission
of the offence of the affiliate.

There is also discretion to reduce a supplier's period of ineligibility by up to five years 5 if it can
demonstrate that they have cooperated with Jaw enforcement or have taken steps to address the causes

of the conduct that led to their ineligibility.

The periods of ineligibility are fixed (i.e., ten years) regardless of the offence that triggered the
determination or the circumstances associated with the situation.

Other jurisdictions have greater levels of discretion built into their debarment regimes. In the US, the
debarring official at the federal agency level, when making a decision to debar a supplier or affiliate,
applies discretionary measures on a case-by-case approach with supportive evidence. In addition to
assessing the business risk to the US government, the debarring official assesses whether the supplier
is “presently responsible”, meaning whether the supplier's management recognizes and understands the -
seriousness of the misconduct giving rise to the cause for debarment, and whether the supplier has
implemented programs to prevent a recurrence.®

 

What do you think?

Q1: To-what extent, if any, should the duration of ineligibility and/or suspension be modified to ensure
appropriateness while continuing to mitigate risk?

Q2: How’could the exercise of greater discretion be built into the Integrity Regime to address issues
associated with periods of ineligibility? What factors should be considered in determining whether
a supplier should benefit from discretion?

 

 

 

 

© The World Bank. Combating Corruption. htto://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/governance/brief/anti-corruption

: ¢ .
eer oruanse teareesan ont att aR eS eT LT ERAEATOEIET 2 NS EEE ROR FEY TE

 

“page 8
000012

Public Services and Procurement Canada
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

SECRET

2. Criteria for ineligibility and suspension |

The ineligibility and Suspension Policy sets out criteria that trigger a determination of suspension or
ineligibility. These decisions are rendered on the basis of specific charges and convictions, all of which

are criminal in nature, relate to corporate wrongdoing, and are specified federal offences.

Currently, the Ineligibility and Suspension Policy includes offences under the following legislation:

Criminal Code
Competition Act
Controlled Drugs and Substance Act
Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act
Excise TaxAct .
Financial Administration Act
- Income Tax Act
Lobbying Act

The Regime does not take into account civil or provincial offences; other federal offences associated
with corporate wrongdoing; allegations or investigations; and debarment decisions made in other —
jurisdictions. The absence of these considerations could leave federal contracts and real property

agreements susceptible to increased risk.

Provincial and civil offences

A supplier that | is charged with or convicted of criminal conduct similar to the specified federal offences
contained in the /neligibility and Suspension Policy by either a province or other subnational body does
not face the same consequences under the Integrity Regime. For example, a supplier could be
convicted of tax fraud in a particular province, but remain eligible under the federal Integrity Regime.

Furthermore, in some cases, other jurisdictions may prosecute corporate wrongdoing civilly rather than
criminally. For example, in many European countries, wrongdoing associated with collusion and bid-
rigging are civil offences. In some countries, such as Germany and Sweden, corporations are not
subject to criminal prosecutions as they are not recognized as a natural person.

This represents a potential gap in the application of the Regime, treats suppliers inconsistently and as
such, may present a risk in the context of federal procurement and real property agreements. For
example, while a supplier may exhibit the same conduct or criminal behaviour, it may face different
consequences under the Regime depending on how the offence is treated in the Jurisdiction | in which the

’ wrongdoing is prosecuted.

. Additional offences associated with corporate wrongdoing

To further safeguard the integrity of its contracts and real property agreements, the Government of

Canada could also consider adding new federal offences to the /neligibility and Suspension Policy that
are linked to corporate wrongdoing. This could include other fraud related offences or those calling into

question the integrity of the supplier.

 

Se Ni ET SEN ST ARS EO

Public Services and Procurement Canada pace 9
. 000013

 
Divulgué en Vertu de la LAI
Released under theATIA °

STOTT, PE ee ee ee ET SE ee Se ep tere

 

 

 

SECRET «.

 

What do you think?

| Q3: ‘Are there other offences that call into question the integrity of a supplier that should be
considered for inclusion within the /neligibility and Suspension Policy? \f so, what are they?

 

Q4: What factors should be considered in determining whether new offences should be included?

 

 

Taking action prior fo, or in the absence of a conviction

The.reliance on charges and convictions to trigger a determination of suspension or ineligibility
potentially limits the Government of Canada’s ability to take action to protect the integrity of its contracts
and real property agreements prior to’a formal conviction, where the risks are potentially higher.

The risks to the Government are potentially greater in doing business with a supplier that is under
investigation or the subject of allegations regarding business ethics, than following a conviction many
years later. By that time, a supplier could have taken remedial actions to address the issues around the
allegations of wrongdoing.

Regimes in other jurisdictions allow for debarment in the absence of formal charges or convictions. For
example, in the US a supplier may be suspended from federal procurement on the basis of adequate
evidence, temporarily pending the completion of an investigation, when it has been determined that
immediate action is necessary to protect the government's interest.’ This enables US officials to take
‘action to mitigate risks and protect the integrity of its contracts when problems first arise.

What do you think?

 

Q5: At what point should the Government of Canada consider actions regarding corporate
wrongdoing when making a determination of suspension or ineligibility? What wrongdoing or
action would warrant a federal response?

 

 

Application to non-procurement Government of Canada services

Decisions under the /neligibility and Suspension Policy could also affect a company’s eligibility for
certain Government of Canada services outside of procurement. For example, Global Affairs Canada’s"
Trade Commissioner Service (TCS) provides market information, qualified contacts, advice and support
to eligible Canadian companies in their business endeavours abroad. The TCS has its own eligibility
criteria and a standard operating procedure to determine whether a company may receive its services.

A suspension or declaration of ineligibility under the /neligibility and Suspension Policy may render the
company ineligible for business development support from trade commissioners or other Canadian
officials abroad. Other triggers for ineligibility for TCS support include a criminal conviction for bribery or
corruption and debarment by an international financial institution such as the World Bank.

 

7 Federal Acquisition Regulation. Section 9.407 https://www.acquisition.gov/?q=browsefar .

Sa oa ESE rae waat poror TI SMe et re Cee nore meth ee St RES

Public Services and Procurement Canada : page 10
i 000014

 
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

 

SECRET

As part of its standard operating procedure, the TCS requires companies to sign an Integrity Declaration
before receiving any advocacy support. The TCS aims to bring economic benefit to Canada by
supporting Canadian companies that do business responsibly and ethically, while showcasing Canada

as a positive example in responsible business practices.

 

What do you think?

Q6: How aligned should Integrity Regime determinations of ineligibility and decisions made by Global
Affairs Canada’s Trade Commissioner Service be? Should a similar approach be applied to other

federal services?

 

 

 

" Other jurisdictions’ debarment decisions

The Government of Canada could consider using debarment decisions made in other jurisdictions (i.e.,
Canadian provinces and territories with debarment regimes, the US, the UK, the World Bank, etc.) to
assess whether or not it is in the government's best interest to do business with a debarred supplier. ,
This could be particularly useful in the Canadian context to avoid inconsistencies resulting from the
Government of Canada continuing to contract with a supplier debarred by a province or territory.

This practice, also known as cross debarment, is in place. among five multilateral development banks
(Asian Development Bank Group, African Development Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, Inter-American Development Bank Group and the World Bank Group). Effectively, a
supplier debarred by one development bank is ineligible to contract with all of them.®

The World Bank suggests that cross debarment multiplies the deterrence factor of a single sanction and
allows participating institutions to make the most of limited investigative resources. The increased
transparency and uniformity of the sanctions process also helps suppliers have a better understanding

of what is expected of them.®

 

What do you think?

Q7: . What impact should a debarment decision made in another jurisdiction or by another organization
have on a supplier's status under the Integrity Regime?

 

 

 

3. Addressing Organized Crime

Organized crime poses a significant threat to public safety and negatively impacts the daily lives of
Canadians. Tied to illegal activities such as drug trafficking, prostitution, theft and human trafficking,
organized crime groups have a violent and corrupting effect on the communities and cities where they

 

8 World Bank Group. Cross Debarment. http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTDOI/Resources/Cross_Debarment_Brief.pdf

° World Bank Group. Cross Debarment. http://siteresources. worldbank.org/INTDOIN/Resources/Cross Debarment_Brief.pdf

 

 

 

page 11.
000015

se ay. ERAS HN,

Public Services and Procurement Canada —
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA ,

figete wn teem Os So Sh eae ei sot en eine ETERS CST ISTE SL ec ee Soe gan od een iociare ip ey ane ea

 

 

 

SECRET ' «

. operate.'° Public procurement is also susceptible to the infiltration of organized crime and its negative
consequences.

Under the Integrity Regime, a supplier may be determined to be suspended or ineligible for a charge or
conviction under sections 467.11 to 467.13 of the Criminal Code (i.e., recruitment of members by a
criminal organization; commission of offence for criminal organization; instructing commission of offence
for criminal organization). As there are known linkages between illicit drugs and organized crime, a
supplier may also be suspended or ineligible if charged with, or convicted of an offence under sections
5-7 of the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (trafficking in substance; importing and exporting; and
production of a substance).

Some have suggested that relying on charges or convictions under these sections of the Criminal Code
doés not to go far enough to protect the Government of Canada from doing business with suppliers who
are affiliated with organized crime. .

 

What do you think?

Q8: What type of measures should be taken to preclude those with known membership in or
associations with organized crime from being awarded a federal contract or real property
agreement?

 

 

 

4. Expanding the scope of application ©

There is an opportunity to look beyond the current scope of the Integrity Regime with respect to how it
applies to contracts and real property agreements awarded by organizations.affiliated with the .
Government of Canada, and. if it can be used to achieve other policy objectives of interest to Canadians.

- Application to Other Federal Organizations

At this time, the Integrity Regime applies to all federal departments and agencies identified under
Schedules |, 1.1 and Il of the Financial Administration Act. Other federal entities, such as Crown
Corporations, are encouraged to opt-in to the Integrity Regime.

Broader adoption of the Integrity Regime to other federal organizations’ procurement and real property .
transactions would provide greater assurances that the Government of Canada is not conducting

business with unethical suppliers.

Using the Integrity Regime to achieve other purposes

It has been suggested that the Government of Canada use its purchasing to positively and uniformly
influence corporate behaviour. Increasingly, international bodies and national/sub-national governments
are incorporating provisions to ensure respect for human.and labour rights protection i in procurement
decisions and policy.

 

49 Criminal Intelligence Service Canada — Organized Crime in Canada: Backgrounder. http://www.cisc.gc.ca/media/2014/2014-08-22-eng.htm

 

a TS Ve er maaees

Public Services and Procurement Canada . : page 12
‘ 000016
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

 

SECRET

For example, in the US, a supplier may be debarred if it engages in conduct prohibited under federal
statutes such as the Buy American Act, Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act. In addition, the US has
issued a series of presidential executive orders that augment ethical procurement standards. This

_ includes, but is not limited to:

e Requiring federal contractors who supply items included on a list of products, by country of origin,
which may have been made by forced or indentured child labour to certify that they have made a
good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labour was used to produce the

items.

Imposing a variety of prohibitions on suppliers and subcontractors who engage in activities which
usually constitute or may lead to some form of trafficking (commercial sex, forced labour, fraud,

worst forms of child labour).

In the UK, a longstanding discussion on the use of forced labour in supply chains has led to the adoption
of the Modern Slavery Act which requires companies with a global turnover of £36m or more to disclose
actions undertaken to eliminate modern slavery in their own business or end-to-end supply chains.
There is growing pressure for the UK to require all suppliers to the government to include a similar

disclosure when bidding on a public procurement.

The Government of Canada could consider adding to the Integrity Regime offences related social issues
such as forced labour and labour rights violations, human trafficking and environmental infractions.

 

What do you think?

Q9: Should application of the Integrity Regime be broadened to include federal entities beyond
departments and agencies? What factors should be considered when determining what other"

organizations should be required to adopt the Integrity Regime’?

Q10: How could the Government of Canada use the Integrity Regime to achieve other social,
economic or environmental policy objectives? .

 

 

 

 

PER 5 SERA ATER SEF ARE IS LE Ee TEI

Public Services and Procurement Canada , paae 13
ot 000017
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
{Released under fhe A\ ATIA ‘

 

 

 

SECRET’ =

_ Summary of questions

We are interested in your views and welcome detailed responses regarding the questions set out in this
discussion paper — a summary of which can be found below.

 

Q1: "To what extent, if any, should the duration of ineligibility and/or suspension be modified to ensure
appropriateness while continuing to mitigate risk?

Q2: How could the exercise of greater discretion be built into the Integrity Regime to address issues
-associated with periods of ineligibility? What factors should be considered in determining whether
a supplier should benefit from discretion?

Q3: Are there other offences that call into question the integrity of a supplier that should be
considered for inclusion within the /neligibility and Suspension Policy? \f so, what are they?

Q4: What factors should be considered in determining whether new offences should be included?

Q5: At what point should the Government of Canada consider actions regarding corporate
wrongdoing when making a determination of suspension or ineligibility? What wrongdoing or
action would warrant a federal response?

Q6: How aligned should Integrity Regime determinations of ineligibility and decisions made by Global
Affairs Canada’s Trade Commissioner Service be? Should a similar approach be applied to other
federal services?

Q7: What impact should a debarment decision made in another jurisdiction or by another organization
have on a supplier's status under the Integrity Regime?

Q8: What type of measures should be taken to preclude those with known membership in or
associations with organized crime from being awarded a federal contract or real property

agreement?

Q9: Should application of the Integrity Regime be broadened to include federal eritities beyond
departments and agencies? What factors should be considered when determining what other
organizations should be required to adopt the Integrity Regime?

Q10: How could the Government of Canada use the Integrity Regime to achieve other social,
economic or environmental policy objectives?

 

 

 

 

TE AE AMEE SR ATLTD, LEA TEETER EIGN ER BT PSN REE * PRL RRSEANY NUIT SALI ES UI SALA

Public Services and Procurement Canada : page 14
000018
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

Oe a SECRET

Contact details

Responses to this consultation paper should be sent to XXXXXXXx@pwygsc-tpsge.ge.ca no later than
11:59 p.m. (Pacific time) November 10, 2017. ,

Any questions regarding this consultation process may also be directed to this email address.

Submissions may be made public on the Consulting with Canadians website.

’ Thank you for participating in this consultation process.

SRE as
page 15
000019

ski aE

‘Public Services and Procurement Canada
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

Please find enclosed documentation for the August 14" briefing on the
Integrity Regime and Deferred Prosecution Agreements (DPAs).

The material includes the following draft documents:

Consultation overview entitled Expanding Canada’s Toolkit to
Address Corporate Wrongdoing.

Integrity Regime Consultation Guide.

Consultation Strategy and list of potential stakeholders.
Communications and Outreach Strategy.

Briefing deck.
Deferred Prosecution Agreement Consultation Guide (tot be provided

by Justice Canada).

000002
en vertu de la LAI
a n wee ATIA
e+!

. Public Works sand Travaux publics et
a “er. ’ Gow overnmen nt Services Services go jouvernementaux

= oe iN f f CONN eM
fee an CANADIANS

aaa Relic » Leadership

SECRET

Consultation Strategy

Enhancing Canada’s Toolkit to
Address Corporate Wrongdoing

August 11, 2017

 

_ www.pwgsc-ipsge.ge.ca ;
ee aaemnameme 000020
Divulgue en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA °

 

SECRET

1. Intreduction a

Consultation i is a key public sector activity that facilitates the success of government initiatives.
It supports inclusiveness in the design and implementation of public policy and legislation and
increases public confidence in the legitimacy and. credibility of government.decision making.

- 4.4- Objectives (

The objectives of this Consultation Strategy are to ensure that consultations are ° well co-
ordinated, effectively managed and responsive to the diverse views and needs of the public
and its stakeholders. Offi cials from Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC), the
Department of Justice (Dou), and Innovation, Science and Economic Development (ISED) will
consult with various stakeholders to determine:

e the critical | changes that need to brought to the Integrity Regime;

e how best the Government of Canada: (GoC) can ensure it does. business with ethical
companies;.

e how the Integrity Regine can be used to support the Government's interest i in ensuring
procurement supports its broader policy objectives (e. Gs social and environmental);
and,

e the views on the possiblé introduction of Deferred Prosecution ‘Agreements (DPAs) i in

- Canada.as a tool. to. combating criminal business practices.

The consultation will provide stakeholders’ perpective to help shape the components of options
. to enhance the Integrity Regime and frame options for a possible Canadian DPA model.

1.2. Principles
The following three principles, have béen identified to underpin the consultation process:

Inclusiveness: . :
« Abroad range of groups and individuals who may be affected by, interestéd in, or. able
to make.a meaningful.contribution to the consultation will be encouraged to participate.
« Measures will be taken to ensure all participants have reasonable opportunity to have
their voices heard, while respecting the need for efficiency i in the use of time and
resources. ; (

Transparency a
e Asummary.of the viewpoints, perspectives and comments collected during the

consultations will be sharéd.- publicly.
e Summaries will be published online.

000021
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

SECRET

Good Faith
e Acommitment that these consultations will be meaningful and their results will be taken

into consideration within the decision making process.

2. Consultation Context

The GoC Plan on Open Government - Commitment 20 (part of the greater Open Government

- Partnership) states that Canada will “enable open dialogue and open policy making”. The GoC
will foster enhanced citizen participation through greater collaboration and co-creation with the
public and stakeholders within and across government initiatives.

According to the Policy on Communications and Federal Identity,1 the Government is expected

to:
« engage with Canadians and use innovative methods when developing policies,

- programs, services and initiatives; and
e interact with Canadians using new approaches such as digital technologies, while
balancing traditional methods to enable the GoC to reach and engage with Canadians

effectively and efficiently.

The Directive on the Management of Communication? requires Departmental Heads of

_ Communication to:
e use digital media and platforms as the primary means to connect and interact with the

public while continuing to use multiple communications channels to meet the diverse

information needs of the public;
« provide communications advice, support and guidance at all stages of consultations and

public engagement initiatives; and, -
e ensure that information about external consultations and public engagement initiatives
are posted on the Government of Canada’ sweb presénce (Consulting with Canadians

web site.

Treasury Board Secretariat (TBS) Guidelines for Effective Regulatory Consultations? provides
advice to departments and agencies and tools to support effective consultations throughout the

regulatory life cycle.
e Consultations are intended to promote the establishment of ongoing, constructive,

professional relationships with stakeholders.
e Consultation principles allow for meaningful experiences, openness and balance,

_transparency and accountability.

 

1 http:/Awww.tbs-set.qc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=30683
2 htto:/Awww.tbs-set.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=30682

- 3 https:/Awww.canada.ca/en/treasury- board-secretariat/services/federal- requiatory-management/guidelines-
tools/effective-requlatory-consultations. htral

000022
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATJA ~

 

 

 

SECRET

In 2001; the Consulting with Canadians web site was created to coordinate and list all national
and regional consultative activities across federal institutions, as well as to create a single
window for Canadians to access and participate in consultations. It serves as the
government's gateway for public access to information on consultations planned, underway or
recently completed by institutions.

Departments are to provide the following, the level of detail will vary from one department and
initiative to the next. _

a) Purpose and objectives of the consultation activity .
o Insome cases, interested participants are required to request more information on
the subject, or a copy of the relevant proposal or report.
o Includes information on the consultation period.

b) Targeted stakeholders groups

o Typically, a number of stakeholder groups are chosen to ensure. that interested or.
impacted stakeholders are provided the opportunity-to provide input.

o Stakeholders may include: representatives from federal provinces and territories,
municipalities, rural and remote communities, Indigenous communities, academia
and international counterparts, subject matter experts in a specialised field, industry,
communities of practice, and the general public.

c) Planned consultations that may be held, but are not limited to:
o Request for feedback/written submission on reports/proposals
= -Reports/proposals may be provided online, provided by link, or interested
stakeholders may be required to request a copy of the relevant document for
review
Comment forms
On-line surveys/questionnaires — includes open ended questions
Interviews/bilateral meetings
- Working groups/focus groups (by invitation only)
Series of focused workshops/conferences (by invitation)
Public town halls/open houses (in some cases, discussions were lead through broad
discussion topics related to the initiative). -
Twitter chats .
.o Live Facebook event
o Video conferencing

oo000 0

o

d) Next steps in the consultation process

e) Links to supplementary information

000023
Divulgue en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

. SECRET -

f) Final consultation results/reports

3. Consultation Approach

Consultations will be conducted on a possible Canadian DPA regime and the Integrity Regime
in a joint process to be co-led by PSPC and DoJ, and supported by Innovation, Science and
Economic Development Canada (ISED) and Global Affairs Canada. The two initiatives will be ©
positioned under the common theme of “Expanding Canada’s Toolkit to. Address Corporate
Wrongdoing’. Canadians will be engaged on key issues related to unethical business
practices in the context of public procurement and the possible introduction of a DPA regime to

address corporate crime.

Although consultations will fall under the same overarching umbrella, they will be conducted in
two streams: one stream for each initiative. A limited consultation approach will be employed.
The principal mechanism will be on- -line consultations supported by meetings with specific
target groups. Views and opinions shared during the consultations will be considered in the

development of options moving forward.

In order to balance the limitations of selecting one primary method of engagement (i.e. the
online activity) departments will develop an aggressive communications plan to encourage
participation among targeted stakeholders, and groups and minorities (women and young
entrepreneurs, indigenous businesses, small and medium enterprises, etc.).

3.1 Methods of engagement

The consultations will be launched using the Consulting with Canadians website. The home
page will introduce the joint consultation process, under the overarching theme of addressing
corporate wrongdoing. It will provide a synopsis of the two streams of consultations that are
taking place. Stakeholders will be able to click on the consultation initiative they wish. to
participate in (e.g. the Integrity Regime or on a possible Canadian DPA regime), which will
redirect them to another webpage. For example, when participants are redirected to the
Integrity Regime Consultations page, they will be provided information on engagement
objectives, a list of targeted stakeholders, information on the online consultation (e.g.
submission period), the discussion guide for review and comment, and a brief overview of what

to expect next.

Similarly, when a stakeholder accesses the DPA consultation webpage, they will be provided
similar information.

Both departments will monitor submissions and should an organization submit one paper but
cover both streams, that submission will be share with the other department.

000024
Divulgue en vertu de la LAI
‘)Released under the ATIA *

 

SECRET

a. Online consultation on discussion papers

Each department will develop discussion papers for stakeholders to review and comment on.
They will provide an understanding and greater context on the Integrity Regime and DPAs, ~
outline some key considerations and possibilities, and pose a series of questions for response.
The consultation period will be open for 60 days. Comments may be submitted through the
online Consulting with Canadians platform or a general email address (i.e. separate accounts
for Integrity Regime and DPAs). ,

b. Meetings

Similar to the situation involved in the National Security consultations, DoJ officials will engage
key justice sector stakeholders directly, through existing mechanisms.

Since implementation of the Regime, PSPC officials have held regular meetings with the
Integrity Regime Industry Association Working Group. In collaboration with other federal
officials, PSPC will hold a 3-hour meeting with this working group. Half of the meeting will be
focused on the Integrity Regime and the other half will be used to discuss the possible
introduction of DPAs.

‘In addition to these sessions, meetings will be held, to the extent possible, with stakeholders to
' discuss their views on the Intregrity Regime and/or on a possible Canadian DPA regime

(meeting requests will be assessed on‘a case by case basis for feasibility). Such meetings will
be conducted jointly by PSPC and Dod officials, when relevant.

_3.2 Outreach and communication

In order to raise awareness of the online consultation opportunities and maximize potential

participation levels across all stakeholder groups, PSPC and DoJ will launch two to three

communication blitzes: leading up to the online consultations, upon the launch and prior to the

closing date. Once the consultations have closed, a message will be placed on the Consulting
. with Canadians website to thank stakeholders for their participation and feedback.

a. Pre-launch announcement

One week prior to launch, departments will announce their intention to consult on the Integrity
Regime and the possible introduction of DPAs. A standard communiqué will be distributed
through broadcast and targeted messaging to raise awareness and encourage participation in
the upcoming consultation activities.

Broadcast messaging would include:

e placing a notice on the Buy&Sell.gc.ca and Integrity Regime websites, and in PSPC's
‘In the Know’; and

000025
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

SECRET

e sending ‘tweeis’ through departmental accounts (e.g. PSPC, DoJ, Buy&Sell.gc.ca,
Office of Small and Medium Enterprises (OSME) regional offices, Associate Deputy
Minister and Assistant Deputy Minister accounts).

Targeted messaging would be conducted by:
_ ® sending emails to existing departmental networks and committees;
o Inparticular, PSPC’s Office of Small and Medium Sized entreprises’ networks will

be used to reach SMEs and minorities, such as women and young
entrepreneurs, indigenous businesses, etc.);
« sending emails to stakeholders that have provided feedback on the Integrity Regime or

DPAs in the past (e.g. Transparency International)

e leveraging existing committees and working groups by sending an email to groups; and
raising the topic during meetings scheduled during this period (e.g. the Supplier
Advisory Committee, Federal, Provincial and Territorial Committees, etc.).

By using a combination of these communication methods, the federal government is actively
‘seeking and encouraging participation from the full range of stakeholder T groups. ‘These
methods will be used in each communication blitz.

b. Opening announcement

A news release would launch the consultations. Upon the launch of the consultations,
communication mechanisms identified for the pre-launch announcement will be repeated.

c. Pre-closing message (if needed)

If uptake is low, two weeks prior to the close of the online consultations, a third notification will
be sent out to as a reminder that the consultation period will be closing shortly and to

encourage stakeholder participation.
d. Closing message

Once the online consultation is closed, a thank you message will be placed on the
Consultation with Canadians website accompanied by next steps in the process (i.e. a
summary of results will be posted online).

3.3 Reporting
(

Two executive summaries will be written, one compiling findings from Integrity Regime
consultations and another from DPA consultations. Key themes from the various events and
online consultations will be grouped together to report on topics and overall findings. These
summaries will be posted on the Consulting with Canadians website, describing what was

_ heard.

000026
. . Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
. Released under the ATIA ~
s.21(1)(b) , . the Al

SECRET ‘’

4. Stakeholders

. The following table indicates stakeholders each stream would target to solicit views.

STAKEHOLDER GROUP

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Private Sector
tan ¥ oo
s Industry associations
. Y v
e Suppliers to the GoC
« Companies ¥
Professional Organizations
v Y
e
v v
e Lawfirms Oo,
. an x v
« Accounting firms
Civil society and NGOs
v 7
v v
v ¥
e
. v v
e Academics (a range) . x
x
e :
e . To be defined | v
Targeted Groups
: . v
e Indigenous Businesses
v
e Women entrepreneurs
; . v
e Small and medium enterprise
Justice Sector Stakeholders
e Provincial and/or Federal Court judges (TBD) v
« Criminal Lawyers’ Association v

 

 

 

000027
S s.24(1)(b)

 

 

 

Provinces and Territories

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

SECRET

 

 

 

 

Heads of Prosecution and Coordinating Committee -
for Senior Officials criminal section — (PT)

 

 

 

 

 

Federal, Provincial, Territorial Deputy Heads of
Public Works

 

Beyond the consultation exercise, insights may be sought from others such as the World Bank,
the UK and US governments regarding lessons leamed and best practices.

‘The willingness of the GoC to broadly consult on possible modifications to the Integrity Regime
is likely to be well received by interested stakeholders, especially given their criticism of the
limited consultations during the development of the Integrity Regime in 2015. Consultations on
the possible introduction of DPAs in Canada may generate wide ranging reaction amongst

stakeholders.

PSPC, ISED and DoJ have a strong understanding of the position of industry associations and
suppliers regarding the Integrity Regime and DPAs due to regular engagement of these ,
stakeholders and/or continued expression of their views at the Ministerial and departmental
level. A broad range of internal and external stakeholder groups will be engaged through a
variety of consultation methods to gather on a discussion paper.

High interest stakeholders

Groups within this category include suppliers, industry associations and representatives
of the legal profession, which will generally be well informed and familiar with the

Integrity Regime and the notion of DPAs.
These stakeholders have vested interest in the Integrity Regime

and the introduction of DPAs in terms of the impact on industry and have.engaged with
the GoC in the past. Government officials can anticipate the general orientation of their

positions.

Medium interest stakeholders

Stakeholders within this group include those who have demonstrated some interest in
the Integrity Regime and DPAs, such as civil society organizations

and professional communities
(e.g. audit and law firms). oe
It is expected that they will have informed opinions of the Integrity Regime and DPAs
and may have expressed views through articles and publications.

000028
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA .

 

5.21(1)(b) SECRET . '

¢ Inboth cases, stakeholders are expected to have similar expertise and knowledge of
compliance regimes which may highlight additional measures and best practices that
may be beneficial to: the Integrity Regime. ,

Modest interest stakeholders

e This category will generally include stakeholders such as advocacy groups .

- _ (e.g. to combat modern day slavery and human trafficking,
improved tax compliance, etc.). ,
e These stakeholders will help inform the range of social policy objectives that may have
’ common associations with procurement and debarment regimes.
e While there has not been any notable reaction to the Integrity Regime from the general
public, it is reasonable to.expect that they would be supportive of efforts to safeguard
the integrity of the public procurement and real property systems, while ensuring that
Canadian companies are not placed at a competitive disadvantage internationally.
Given the prominence of issues related to climate change and the growing awareness
of the impact of global supply chains, there may also be support for using the Integrity
Regime for social and environmental policy goals.

5. Timelines

Now to ° ‘Finalize policy issues to seek views on, develop umbrella

September 2017 piece and a consultation guide on Integrity Regime and on a
possible Canadian DPA regime.

September 18- « 60 day on-line consultations (ending on November 10)

December 10, e Meetings would continue until December 10

2017

6. Next Steps

A detailed communicaton plan will be developed.

10

000029
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

“DRAFT August 10, 2017 . SECRET

EXPANDING CANADA’S TOOLKIT TO ADDRESS CORPORATE
‘WRONGDOING

The Government of Canada is seeking views of stakeholders on enhancements to the
Integrity Regime and on factors that should be taken into account i in reviewing the
desirability of implementing a possible Canadian DPA regime.

Context

Corporate wrongdoing’ imposes significant economic, political and social costs.
Behaviours linked to corporate wrongdoing undermine fair competition, threaten the
integrity of markets, constitute barriers to economic growth, increase cost and risk of
doing business, and undermine public and investor confidence.~

- Many governments, including Canada’s, are committed to taking action against
improper and unethical business practices and holding companies criminally liable for
such conduct. This is achieved through a framework of laws, regulations, governance
frameworks, ‘policies and programs, etc., that seek to detect, prevent and address such
practices. The stability of the marketplace is inextricably linked to a good and stable’
government. Companies are also playing a role by implementing stronger internal
controls, governance structures, codes of conduct and compliance regimes.

The Canadian government has implemented a number of measures to deter companies
from participating in corporate misconduct. These include amending or updating -
legislation such as the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the Competition Act,
the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and the Terrorist Financing Act. Other
measures include conducting investigations and initiating prosecutions against those
who contravene an Act of Parliament, as well as developing and implementing non-
legislative initiatives such as Public Services and Procurement Canada’s (PSPC) Code
of Conduct for Procurement, Fairness Monitoring Program, and Anti-Fraud Tip Line
(joint initiative of the RCMP, Competition Bureau and PSPC), and the Government-wide

Integrity Regime.
Review and consultations

After introducing a government-wide Integrity Regime (Regime) over two years ago, itis —
useful to review whether it is achieving its objectives and whether it is efficient in doing
so. This assessment is also an opportunity to consider how the Regime addresses new
trends-and risks in a constantly changing marketplace.

This assessment is also an opportunity to consider the possibility of introducing a

Canadian Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) regime as an additional tool for
_prosecutors, to be used in appropriate circumstances, to ensure that corporate criminal

conduct is subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties and to assist in

 

1 Refers to the behaviours of companies or other business related legal entitles.

000003
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

SECRET

Annex A-— Types of Consultation Approaches -

 

“| e Offers few consultation

 

methods for broad or
targeted consultation.

A e Typically conducted

when there is little time
(less than 6 weeks) and
limited financial and
human resource
constraints.

 

Pree eee

e Employs multiple
methods for broad and
targeted consultation. =

e Typically conducted when
there is some time (6
weeks to 3 months), and

* financial and human
resources.

 

|e Employs extensive and

   

diverse consultation
methods with various
stakeholders groups.

e Typically conducted when
there ts ample time (3
months +), and financial
and human resources, and
the subject matter is high
profile and high impact.

  
    

 

-activities*.

 

 

“Je Discussion

papers/documents for
comment
« ° Telephone/mail/online

* Conferences/symposia

 

limited approach:

Focus groups

Study circles
Deliberative poles
On-line discussion board

 

Examples of.” | Could include one or two =| Could include a combination | Could include various of the

. potential ° ‘| of the following: r (two or more) of the following, in addition to those

engagement ° following activities, in listed under moderate
addition to those listed under | approach: .

» Open space technology

e Advisory
boards/committee/council

® Task force

survey/questionnaire Interviews — e Social media
o or poll Bilateral meeting event/aciivity
‘| » Open house Workbook e Workshop
« Town Meeting Toll free line

 

 

 

4 Engagement activities listed are not restricted to a p

across any approach.

articular consultation approach. They typically can be used

il

000030
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI.
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

SECRET

_ Annex B - Example of Consultation Approaches used by OGDs

 

 

  

Moremi ite

 

"1 (Consuttatic

  

 

  
    

  

 

Consultation.-

fe Engage Canadians to fh

. “Engage Canadians to

+ Engage Canadians to

 

 

 

 

Objective provide comments and help support the gather views to help
Cott ideas on the future of development of a new develop a Canadian
lvwavik National Part and vision for Canada’s space Poverty Reduction Strategy
the draft plan. sector and to define key (Approximately 7 months).
e The draft lvwavik elements of a space « Aconsultation paper was ©
Management Plan was strategy (Overall published for review and
published for comment. consultation period to be comment for the
o No specific questions confirmed)... - consultations.
or considerations . e Aconsultation paper was o Includes a set of
were included. published for review and questions integrated
comment for the into the paper for
consultations. consideration and
o Includes a set of response.
questions integrated ,
into the paper for
consideration and
: oo response.
Targeted §..|¢ General public Canadians | ¢ Canadians
Stakeholders _ e Subject matter experts * Subject matter experts
: 7 : from: from:
o disability and eo academia
indigenous o service delivery

organizations
_o businesses
‘o community organizers
and municipal
organizations
o academic experts
o Canadians who have
experienced poverty

9 business and
international expertise
on poverty

« Members will also be
representatives of
Canada’s diversity in |”
terms of gender, ethnicity,
regions and official

 

 

languages.

 

 

5 Link to Parks Canada’s consultation page: htto:/Awww.pc.ge.ca/en/pn-np/ytfivvavik/info/plan/plan1
8 Link to the Canadian Space Agency's consultation page: http://Awww.ic.qc.ca/eic/site/ad-

ad.nsffeng/h_ad03983.html
7 Link to ESDC’s consultation page: https://Awww.canada.ca/en/employment-social-
development/proqrams/poverty-reduction/consultation-poverty.html?_ga=2.96026268.1297639158.1499463661-

2082557882.1482331214
12
000031
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

— . SECRET

Consultation Approach

 

- Poverty Reducti nv

» Approx. 4 months). aye

 

 

   

In-person consultations

Online Consultations (approx.

; Engagement: | « Draft paper for comment
5 Activities o Interested (approx. 1 month) 4% months):
(and participants can ;

submit comments « 6 roundtables were held e Individuals and

tim elines) |

 

 

online or by mail.

 

across Canada, by
invitation only, to engage
stakeholders on
Canada’s space sector.

e 2 virtual roundtable
events were hosted,
targeting Canada’s
Youth, and Northern
Canada.

e Summaries of each
roundtable are posted
online as they become
available.

Online consultation (fo be
confirmed)

« All Canadians were -
invited to review the
consultation’ paper and
submit comments in
electronic format to an
email address.

 

organizations are
encouraged to review the
discussion paper and
participate in the online
consultation.

« A discussion forum.

e Online survey.

e Canadians encouraged to
share their stories via
video, photo, written or
other.

e Canadians encouraged to -

follow them on social
media and join the
discussion.

e Ideas can be sent by email.

e Facebook live event

25 In-person consultations
(approx. 4 % months)

¢ 17 roundtables across .

’ Ganada with targeted
stakeholder groups, 4 of
which were open to the
public for registration.

e 5 town halls with Ministers
and MP in attendance, all
open to the public for
registration.

e Trilateral consultation with
3 MPs.

Other

e 33 Community events
across Canada (facilitated
by the Tamarack Institute

 

 

13

.000032
Consultation Approach

 

 

 

 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA *°

 

 

 

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and its Vibrant
Communities)

Advisory committee (to
operate for 1 year — outside
of the consultation period)

e A public call for .
nominations was open to
interested parties who have
experience with poverty
and poverty reduction from
four key areas.

The call was held for
approx. 1 month.

The Committee will share
information, hold
independent discussions;
and provide advice to the
Minister on arange of —
issues.

 

 

14
000033
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

_ 8.21(1)(b) . cht

10-Aug-17

 

EC NENENENENEN EN
TAL ALSES| SESE SPS

NIN NINDNENEN
AP STALS|S|STS

¥
v
v
v
v
¥
v
Y
v
v
v

Academics (to be indentified

NIST SE SESE RTE RT ATS
AL AL ATAT SESE SE STS

000034

 
, . . Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
s.21 (1 )(b) on under the ATIA ~
UNCLASSIFIED -

a ‘ ”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Labour Organizations
a es
Justice Sector Stakeholders

Provincial and Superior Court Judges

 

 

 

Criminal Lawyers Association

 

 

 

 

 

AEST AEST AT STS

<
‘\

Provinces and Territories

Heads of Prosecution (PT) ;

Coordinating Committée of Senior Officials (Criminal Justice)
Federal, Provincial, Territorial Deputy Heads of Public Works __ | ¥

 

JSS

 

 

 

 

 

 

000035
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

DRAFT SECRET
ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

‘COMMUNICATIONS AND OUTREACH STRATEGY

Consultation for Enhancing Canada’s Toolkit to Address Corporate Wrongdoing

Issue

Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC) and the Department of Justice (DoJ),
with support from Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (ISED) and .
Global Affairs Canada (GAC), are launching a public consultation on enhancements to the
Integrity Regime and consideration regarding the possible adoption of a Deferred
Prosecution Agreement (DPA) regime to address corporate crime.

The consultation will provide stakeholders’ perspective to help shape and frame options |
for the Integrity Regime and a Canadian DPA model.

Background

Corporate wrongdoing imposes significant economic, political and social costs. These
-behaviours undermine fair competition, threaten the integrity of markets, are barriers to
economic growth, increase the cost and risk of doing business, and undermine public and

investor confidence.
\

Governments, including Canada’s, are taking action against unethical business practices
and holding companies accountable for such misconduct. This is achieved through a
series of laws, regulations, governance frameworks, policies, programs that seek to detect,
prevent and address such practices.

The Canadian government has implemented a number of measures that are designed to -
deter companies from participating in corporate misconduct. These include enacting and
amending legislation such as the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the
Competition Act and the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing
Act and amending the Criminal Code to address corporate criminal liability, as well as non-
legislative measures, such as the PSPC’s Code of Conduct for Procurement, Fairness
Monitoring Program, an Anti-Fraud Tip Line (joint initiative of the RCMP, Competition
Bureau and PSPC), and the Government-wide Integrity Regime.

It is important to continually assess whether the right tools are in place to address
corporate wrongdoing.

Moreover, after introducing a government-wide Integrity Regime over two years ago, the
‘regime that precludes suppliers from doing business with the GoC if charged with or
convicted of one of the listed offences, it is useful to review whether it is achieving its
objectives and whether it is efficient in doing so. This assessment is an opportunity to
’ consider how the Regime addresses new trends and risks in a constantly changing
marketplace as well as within the federal procurement modernization and social

procurement agenda.

000036
s.21(1)(b)

DRAFT

This assessment is also an opportunity to consider the: possibility of introducing a
Canadian DPA regime as an additional tool for prosecutors, to be used in appropriate

circumstances, to ensure that corporate criminal conduct is subject to effective,

 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

z

 

 

 

SECRET |

ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

proportionate and dissuasive penalties and to assist in meeting other objectives, including

increasing detection and improving compliance and corporate culture.

Communications objectives

e Inform Canadians of the GoC’s efforts and initiatives to address corporate wrongdoing

and protect the stewardship of public funds.

e Raise awareness among key audiences and encourage participation in the upcoming

consultation activities.

Key audiences/stakeholders

e Private sector

e Professional organizations
e Civil society and non-governmental organizations

* Targeted groups

e Justice sector stakeholders

_The following table indicates stakeholders each stream would target to solicit views.

STAKEHOLDER GROUP

 

| Private Sector

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e Industry associations v v

e Suppliers to the GoC v v

e Companies . x
Professional Organizations

e v vw

e Lawfirms v ¥

. e Accounting firms v ¥

Civil Society and NGOs

° Vv ¥

e v v

e ¥Y of

e Academics (a range) v v

v

 

 

 

000037
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
$.2
. 1(1)(b) . Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

%

DRAFT SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017
« To be defined ; vo
Targeted Groups
e - Indigenous Businesses ¥
*« Women entrepreneurs v
e Small and medium enterprises v
Justice Sector Stakeholders
e Provincial and/or Federal Court judges | v
‘ (TBD)
e Heads of Prosecution and Coordinating v
Committee for Senior Officials criminal
section — (PT)
e Criminal Lawyers’ Association 4
e vw
e v
Provinces and Territories
e Federal, Provincial and Territorial Deputy v.
Heads of Public Works

 

 

 

 

 

‘Beyond the consultation exércise, insights may be sought from others, such as the World
Bank, the UK and US governments, regarding lessons learned and best practices.

Environmental Scan

The willingness of the GoC to broadly consult on possible modifications to the Integrity
Regime is likely to be well received by interested stakeholders, especially given their
criticism of the limited consultations during the development of the Integrity Regime in
2015. Consultations on the possible introduction of DPAs in Canada may generate wide

ranging reaction amongst stakeholders.

PSPC, ISED and DoJ have a strong understanding of the position of industry associations |
and suppliers regarding the Integrity Regime and DPAs due to regular engagement of .
these stakeholders and/or continued expression of their views at the Ministerial and

departmental level.

Some stakeholders have also published reports on the subjects, providing
recommendations to the GoC. For instance, Transparency International Canada recently
published a report, Another Arrow i in the Quiver?: Consideration of a DPA scheme in ,

Canada.

A broad range of internal and external stakeholder groups will be engaged, primarily online
through the use of a discussion guide housed on the Consulting with Canadians website.
Officials will also make best efforts to meet with interested parties and, when rélevant,

— . 000038
 

: . . Divulgué en vertu'de Ja LAI
s.21(1)(b) ‘ . Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

‘DRAFT . SECRET
ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

these meetings will be conducted jointly. For example, it is expected that engagement of
industry associations will be jointly held with departmental officials to ensure efficiency of

the process.

High interest stakeholders
e Groups within this category include suppliers, industry associations and
representatives of the legal profession, who will generally be well informed and familiar
with the Integrity Regime and the general parameters of DPAs. oe
These stakeholders have a strong
interest in the Integrity Regime and -the introduction of DPAs in terms of the impact on
industry and some have engaged with the GoC on these issues in the past.

Medium interest stakeholders
e Groups within this category include civil society organizations and professional
communities and they have demonstrated interest in the Integrity Regime and DPAs
’ through articles and publications. They have knowledge of compliance regimes and
may highlight measures and best practices they consider may be beneficial to the
Integrity Regime.

Modest interest stakeholders
e Groups within this category include stakeholders such as advocacy groups -

_ They may also be supportive of using the Integrity
Regime for social and environmental policy goals. These stakeholders will help inform
the range of social policy objectives that may be promoted or advanced through
- procurement and debarment regimes. :

Media Scan (August 2016 to August 2017)
See Annex A for list of related articles

« Media coverage related to public procurement and corruption was limited-with 16
written articles over the analyzed period. Coverage was national in. scope, mostly
reporting factually on alleged fraud cases concerning companies with federal
government contracts, such as SNC-Lavalin, which signed an administrative
agreement with PSPC in December 2015, allowing the firm to continue doing
business with the government pursuant to the Regime.

e The articles also set out the implementation of a federal contracting fraud tip line

where whistleblowers can report suspected fraud, collusion or corruption in federal,
government contracts and real property agreemenis.

000039
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAl
Released under the ATIA *

 

 

 

DRAFT August 10, 2017 SECRET: * ye

meeting other objectives, including increasing detection and improving compliance and
corporate culture. : ;

A DPA can serve as a tool to be used, at the prosecutor's discretion in appropriate
circumstances, to address corporate crime. Under a DPA, criminal prosecution is
suspended on the accused agreeing to fulfil certain requirements including admitting to
facts that would support a conviction, paying a significant financial penalty and
cooperating with authorities, on completion of which, charges will be withdrawn. -

000004
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

~" DRAFT SECRET
- ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017
e - In anarticle on an ex-convict winning a contract to provide pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies to remote northern First Nations, NDP public procurement critic
Erin Weir was quoted as saying that “wouldn’t suggest a blanket ban on ex-convicts
being involved in government contracts” adding that “there’s room for improvement
and that government procurement has had a lot of problems.”

e Anarticle on the Panama Papers reported that. “Internationally, Canada has long
been considered lax on white collar crime, with few prosecutions and prison
sentences measured in months, not years.”

 

e There has been limited media coverage of DPAs in the period covered (10 articles);
mostly positive and much of it related to SNC-Lavalin Inc.

e An article in the Canadian Lawyer magazine summarizes the recent repori on the
potential fora DPA scheme in Canada by Transparency International Canada, as ~
well as briefly mentioning a 2015 paper by the Institute for Research on Public
Policy, suggesting that DPAs could be a more effective tool for the federal
government to deal with corporations caught up in wrongdoing.

Strategic considerations

Recent media coverage of federal initiatives to stop corporate wrongdoing has ranged
from neutral to positive. To maintain this type of coverage, key messages will have to be
tailored so that balance is kept between focusing on holding wrongdoers accountable for
their action through an enhanced Integrity Regime while allowing discretion to mitigate
negative impacts on innocent parties.

Communication Approach

A proactive communication approach, strongly relying on digital tools, such as email blast
targeted at stakeholders, will be implemented. This will be supported by departmental
efforts to provide personalized emails and/or calls to specific stakeholder organizations to
raise awareness and encourage participation in the consultations, PSPC will also develop
a social media calendar with Linkedin, Twitter and Facebook components that will cover
before and during the consultations, as well as reminders on the eve of its closing.

The Consulting with Canadians, the Integrity Regime, and Buy & Sell web pages will be
used to promote the consultation web page hosted on PSPC's site. Consideration will also

be given to a priority button on canada.gc.ca.

Conventional communication tools will also be used. For example, a news release will be
issued on the day of the launch. ,

000040
Divulgué en vertu de la LAL
Released-under the ATIA |
o,.

DRAFT SECRET |
ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

Communication with internal audiences is also planned with other federal departments
receiving a notice in advance of public launch as well as a PSPC /n the Know article to be
published on the week of launching. DOJ will also be invited to prepare similar
communications for its employees.

Tag Line
Enhancing Canada’s Toolkit to Address Corporate Wrongdoing

Hashtag
#Letstalkcorporatewrongdoing
#ParlonsActesRépréhensibles
Visual Treatment

TBD

Key. messages

® The GoC is committed to taking action against unethical business practices and
holding companies accountable for their misconduct. , ,

e The GoC is assessing its tools to ensure that, in an evolving marketplace, it has the
best mechanisms in place to address corporate wrongdoing.

e As such, the GoC is seeking views on possible enhancements to the Integrity Regime
in alignment with procurernent modernization and the social procurement agenda.

e Deferred Prosecution Agreements are a particular type of response to corporate crime
in specific circumstances. It is a complex legal issue and as such, the GoC is seeking
views on its possible introduction.

e The input and feedback collected from the consultations will provide valuable
information which will help the Government to identify ways to further enhance the
Regime and how it addresses corporate wrongdoing as a whole.

A complete set of responsive lines will be separately developed by PSPC/DoJISED.

000041
‘" DRAFT

Communication Activities

 

 

Divulgue en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

SECRET

ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

 

 

   

 
    

 

 

media

 

reminder

11 with once a week

 

External Email blast. Email(s) willbe senton | DOB with
Stakeholders/Canadians September 11 support/review from
. . PSPC Comms.
Personalized emails
and/or calls
Countdown on social | Startingon September | PSPC Comms.

 

‘Launching activities |

a ee

 

External
Stakeholders/Canadians

Stakeholders
Internal

PSPC employees
DOJ Employees

Other departments and
agencies

 

 

Joint news release,
posted by PSPC

announcing the launch

of the consultation.

MLs, Qs and As to
support release.

Launch of the Web
Page and Priority
button

Posting on social
media with link to NR
and web page

Email blast with link to

web page

in the Know Article
DOJ Article

Email

 

September 18

 

PSPC Comms in
partnership with DoJ

Comms

PSPC Comms

PSPC Comms

DOB

PSPC Comms’
DOJ Comms

PSPC DOB

 

 

000042
 

During consultation

ROLLI

 

Divulgue en verty de'la LAI,
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

> oa

SECRET

NG DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

  
   

 

; External
Stakeholders/Canadians

Stakeholders

Posting on social
media with link to NR
and web page

Email blast one week
prior.of closing date .

Countdown on social
media with a link to the
discussion paper.

An automatic reply will
be provided to those
that submit feedback to
the two generic
inboxes thanking them
for their participation.

Meetings with
stakeholders as
warranted

 

Ongoing

TBC

TBC

Ongoing

Ongoing

.| PSPC/DoJ

 

PSPC Comms in,
partnership with DoJ
Comms and DOB

DOB

PSPC Comms

DOB

 

Post consultation.

 

External ;
Stakeholders/Canadians

 

 

A thank you message

will be posted to
consultation site
following the final day
of consultations.

‘| Executive summary to

be posted online and
promoted through
social media

 

TBC

DOB in partnership with
| PSPC Comms

 

 

 

000043
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

DRAFT | | SECRET
ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

Evaluation

Success of the communication strategy will be evaluated by analyzing data from:

* Traffic on the PSPC web page (consultation page) -

¢ Social media, tweets, retweets, share on Facebook and Linkedin
e Number of submissions

e Media coverage (qualitative and quantitative)

000044
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAL
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

DRAFT | SECRET

10.
11.
12.
13,
14.

15.

ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

ANNEX A

. Grand Medicine regains northern Manitoba medical contract (Melissa Ridgen, APTN

NATIONAL NEWS) 201 7-07-19

Canada: Federal Contracting Fraud Tip Line: What Your Business Needs To Know
(Jordan Deering and Emily McCartney, MONDAQ) 2017-07-12
Decision shows Canada's anti-bribery law has teeth (Julius Melnitzer, NATIONAL

POST, FP4) 2017-07-12

. Thirteen plead guilty in Laval collusion probe (MONTREAL GAZETTE, A3) 2017-07-12

La corruption en héritage (Vincent Larouche, LA PRESSE, 8) 2017-07-12

30 MOIS DE PRISON POUR L'EX-DIRECTEUR (JOURNAL DE MONTREAL, 5) 2017-07-
12

ILS ONT PLAIDE COUPABLES HIER (JOURNAL DE MONTREAL, 4) 2017-07-12
MUHC fraud case back in court Sept. 27 (Andy Riga, MONTREAL GAZETTE) 2017-06-
29

Les délais s'accumulent pour les coaccusés du CUSM (Genevieve Garon, RADIO-
CANADA) 2017-06-29

A FORCE IN FLUX (Colin Freeze and Daniel Leblanc, THE GLOBE AND MAIL) 2017-
06-29

EXCLUSIVE: Feds unknowingly give northern First Nations pharmacy contract to
“brutal pimp” (Melissa Ridgen, APTN NATIONAL NEWS) 2017-06-09

Government of Canada Launches Federal Contracting Fraud “Tip Line” (LEXOLOGY)
2017-06-06 ,
Whistle-blower programs usher in a new era of fighting white-collar crime (Tom
Hakemi and Kaitlyn Meyer, THE GLOBE AND MAIL) 2017-05-29

Who ya gonna call (out)? Government of Canada introduces tip line to report federal
contract fraud. (Michael S. Rankin, Timothy Cullen and Shauna Cant, LEXOLOGY)
2017-04-26

Panama Papers have helped fuel ‘a more aggressive CRA' (Marco Chown Oved,

- TORONTO STAR) 2017-03-20

16.

Liberals, Conservatives repay illegal SNC-Lavalin donations (Robert Fife and Daniel
Leblanc, THE GLOBE AND MAIL) 2016-09-09

Deferred Prosecution Agreement

. Does Canada need a deferred prosecution agreement process? (Jennifer Brown,

CANADIAN LAWYER) 2017-07-25

. Sunnybrook Foundation seeking $20M in federal fundin for PTSD program

(Beatrice Britneff, IPOLITICS) 2017-05-17

. SNC-Lavalin says it has been hurt by charges (RED DEER ADVOCATE) 2017- 05-05
. SNC-Lavalin says it lost foreign contracts because of criminal charges (THE

CANADIAN PRESS) 2017-05-05

10

000045
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

SECRET
ROLLING DRAFT AS OF August 11, 2017

5. SNC seeks continued Caisse backing (Nicolas Van Praet, THE GLOBE AND MAIL)
2017-05-05

6. SNC-Lavalin says it lost foreign contracts because of criminal charges (CAPE

: BRETON POST) 2017-05-04

: 7. SNC-Lavalin boss repeats calls for delayed prosecution agreements amid

diversification efforts (Jesse Snyder, NATIONAL POST) 2017-05-04

8. SNC-Lavalin says it lost foreign contracts because of criminal charges (Julien

_ Arsenault, THE TELEGRAM/THE CANADIAN PRESS) 2017-05-04
9. SNC-Lavalin seeks continued Caisse backing for future acquisitions (Nicolas Van
Praet, THE GLOBE AND MAIL) 2017-05-04

10. How accounting firm KPMG helped wealthy Canadians dodge their taxes (Anna ©

Maria: Tremont CBC NEWS) 2017-03-02

we boy

DRAFT

11.
000046
 

Divulgué en vertu de la tal
Released undeér the ATIA

 

 

 

 

Sl Taal
me ‘e vee Clea)
A\ aa ee ae _ Saat)
ao + ers er ee * ia ae 7 CANADIANS.

 

DRAFT SO -. SECRET

| Consultation Strategy for —_
Enhancing Canada’s Toolkit to Address Corporate
Wrongdoing

Ministerial Briefing
August 14, 2017

SP SATE A ET AES SESE RT SRR tet ns i cee ne pe gree eas ave tpiinmtte meee pene SIT nase

i +i Government Gouvernement isn

of Canada du Canada ~Canadii

000047
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released u nider the ATIA

 

 

 

 

Assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of tools to address
‘corporate: ‘wrongdoing |

° Behaviours-linked to corporate wrongdoing undermine fair competition, threaten the
_integrity of markets, constitute barriers to economic growth, increase cost and risk of
doing business, and undermine public and investor confidence.

+ Canada has a strong set of measures to address corporate wrongdoing, including
amending or updating legislation (i.e., Corruption.of Foreign Public Officials Act,
Competition Act, etc.) and implementing non-legislative initiatives (i.e., Codes of Conduct,
Integrity Regime, Federal Contracting. Fraud Tip Line, etc. )

° itis important to continually assess whether the right tools are in place.

~ * Time is right to now seek feedback on two elements that relate to Canada’s efforts to
address corporate wrongdoing: enhancements to the Integrity Regime and the possible
adoption of Deferred Prosecution Agreements (DPAs) in Canada.

2

oe aS See

ILS CS LE So et tee ee ee teeny a ore Seam : ATI

. Eon
Wn Some secure | Canada

 

000048
Divulgué en vertu de la “LAI
Relea ant nder,the ATIA

 

 

Consulting on enhancements to the Integrity Regime and the possible
introduction of DPAs

Consulting on the Integrity Regime i is an opportunity to assess whether it is achieving its
objectives in an efficient manner, ensure that it addresses new trends and risks ina

constantly changing marketplace, and reflects the Government’s highest ethical standards

~— Under the Regime, if a supplier is convicted of one of the listed offences in Canada or
a similar offence abroad within the last 3 years, the supplier will be ineligible to be
awarded a contract or real property transaction for a period of 10 years.

— - Regime is policy-based debarment scheme — similar in structure to others used by
PTs and other jurisdictions internationally.

Introduction of a DPA regime could also be considered as an additional tool to ensure

corporate criminality is subject to effective, proportionate.and dissuasive penalties, while
strengthening detection, compliance and corporate culture.

— Under a DPA, criminal prosecution is suspended on the accused agreeing to fulfil
certain requirements including admitting to facts that would support a conviction,

paying a significant financial penalty and cooperating with authorities, on completion
of which, charges will be withdrawn.

Introduction of a DPA in Canada would require legislation; models are.in place i in US,

UK, and a proposal is under development in Australia. 3

TE LIE A Re

. “yiel
Be Seermet —gouornament | | Canada

000049

 
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAI

 

 

 

, . + . . : Released under the ATIA
wt Sek ;Public Services and ~ Services publics et : Canada

Procurement Ganada  Approvisionnement Canada . Copy 34

Servin

COIS ENIh
Scieglaoe ;
CANADIANS,

See e Mere Ce Mm Revell tim Oma el crom eels eC
Wrongdoing

   

Discussion paper for public consultation
Slaheia

_ Integrity Regime Stream.

DRAFT

August 10, 2017

  

2
De e .
l 4 fo. ;
i ! 4 L i
ae Pop i
; : i | i '
i foo i “
po \
& a . i \ \
\ gy \. ’ oe 3 4
i oT oes oe £8 i \ ‘
Lo Lo LON, lo
WWW.pPSpC-Spac.gc.ca _ - . . on :
- : . . 000005

 

 
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

 

 

 

Expected to seek views on: - Oo oy i Expected to seek views on:.

a appropriate debarment time periods (e. g., is j° criteria required for DPA (e. g., when should’ an
mene 10 years too long, exercise of discretion) . i accused be invited to negotiate a DPA) -

“«. eriteria for debarment (e.g., taking action in is parties to a DPA (e.g., available to. corporations
othe absence of convictions/charges) a cand/orindividuals)
_ " level of discretion (6.g., recognition of ce . scope of offences (e.g., corporate « crime or all |
re provincial offences, debarments by others). - Woe criminal offences) 3 |
“* “addressing organized.crime (e.g.,.possible- j° role of: judiciary. (e.g.;-determining whethera . |
,_, Steps to further mitigate these risks) - DPA is in public interest, approval DPA)

*. achievement of other; ‘policy objectives. using.
|
\
}

* fermstobeincludedinaDPA = ||
"the Integrity Regime (e.g., consideration of | » usage of admissions i in subsequent
*< labour violations, human trafficking, proceedings oO,

oS environmental infractions) — | * victim restitiition (e.g., should it be included) |

t
‘| .and distribution of proceeds (e. 9. how should —
, payments be used): os

 

 

. Ye
ee aad

etot riety sonar ote ete eas ont = a : 5 3 eR te

, mm
I Government Gowemernent | , | Canada

000050

 
Divulgué en vertu de la CAI
Released under ‘the ATIA
2 6

 

 

    

A strategic approach to consultation

The following principles will underpin consultations:

~ Inclusiveness: broad. range of groups and individuals; reasonable opportunities to
provide input

~ Transparency: executive summary of perspectives and comments. will be shared
~ Good faith: consultations will be meaningful and input will be taken into consideration |

° Single process to seek views on the Integrity Regime. and DPAs, jointly conducted by
PSPC and DoJ officials, with support from ISED and GAC.

— Creates a link between the two initiatives, and presents a comprehensive solution to
better address corporate criminality, while mitigating unintended consequences.

* Consulting with Canadians will be used to establish an online presence.

— Anumbrella piece will link the two issues (i.e., Expanding Canada’s toolkit to address
Corporate Misconduct) with two separate streams for consultation — Integrity Regime
and DPAs — along with a discussion guide for each initiative.

* To the extent possible, meetings will be held with stakeholders upon request, conducted
jointly by PSPC and DoJ when relevant: international experiences and models, as well as

PT approaches, can also be mined for best practices. 5

“7 _— gouyergment | | ~ Canada

000051

 
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

TE tewnchinion haben ers FE ae Ee ty OT SRY EN a eee cette CR EET ee ENR CET IES OIE TT
Sete ar Te igi HEL raha, Stag Sa aaa a Se A nw S sear Jpeg ELE TO ee AE A Ae See Cee Se Ro ee ee eee 5 Me *

 

Current environment is focused mainly on DPAs

* Recent media coverage related to public procurement, corporate criminality and
corruption has been limited.

— Primarily focused on off-shore financial schemes (i.e., Panama Papers,
KPMG), specific companies, and international initiatives (i.e., UK Summit).

* Anumber of industry associations and civil society organizations have taken
formal positions regarding the adoption of a Canadian DPA regime, including:.

— Business Council of Canada which urged the GoC to follow the lead of the
US and UK in adopting DPAs as an additional compliance tool.

— Canadian Chamber of Commerce which had sought implementation ofa
robust DPA framework in Budget 2016.

— Transparency International - Canada which proposed a set of criteria if a
DPA scheme were adopted in. Canada.

— |IRPP presented a roundtable discussion framework to consider whether
' Canada should adopt a DPA regime.

> arms PR LR PR ce MSN aa MRT 2 aT RITE BIBT SS

Cm StS tue oo ce tc ee eee soe ees oo Soe see merece meer:

eS Sa acoascersepctestt set”
Ben Shomer’ geagagnn oe | : Canadit

000052

 
     

s.21(1)(b)

om : S ca
* eutatededidt tenner ec inte Lain Lerten ak

Divulgué en vertu de la EAI
Released undér the ATIA

>

Terre pte ee eee pe ce meer AER RE A ann ST I RN ce EET Ee A a aRTNR nem a

Soe ee - oe, 5 tS rg

Consultations will likely be well received but will include diverse views

2 EE

- Companies and
Industry.

| "Associations a
Ee .
[

t
L
be .
Civil society,.
:, Academics,
Professional
Associations .
| and Firms

 

 

| Advocacy -
- groups.

 

 

wd "se

SASSI SNOT OUI tee oo,

Gouvernement
du Canada

Primary objective will be to push for the introduction of a Canadian DPA

regime

Likely to seek a softening of the Integrity Regime and may express concern

with useof the’ Regime forr new: v-policy objectives and/or general strengthening

Strong interest stakeholders, views could be made public .
Positions should be more nuanced and balanced. i
Law and accounting firms will likely support adoption of DPAs, and while ot

_. expressing general support for the Integrity Regime may argue for softening! fo
_ ensure competitiveness of corporations -

Civil. society organizations are likely to support D DPAs but will include specttic

characteristics to avoid | potential shortcomings |

. Modest interest stakeholders.

Expect some groups to advocate for transparency in supply chains (i.e.,
concerns of child labour, human trafficking, environmental enforcement)

—_ A SCLDS SRO SE a LITE TL ey eee ee etna

Rell

Canada

000053
: : . : Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
- s.21(1)(b) - . Released under the ATIA ;
«

 

 

 

Consultations will likely be-well received but will include diverse
views (cont'd)

 

‘Justice Sector = . | oo . .
~ Stakeholders . | «High interest stakeholders regarding DPAs .

(Judges; PTs, | © Views will be diverse but some views will likely not be in the public
domain

 

I . Expected to be supportive of efforts to safeguard the integrity of the
‘Media z andl general = |. public contracting.
: pute ‘| © Might raise concerns that DPAs allow. companies to: pay their way out of

| + - |. ¢riminal violations and perceived as a cost of doing. business

 

 

 

Beh Sem Segre | a | Canada a

000054
Divulgué.en vertu de la tAl
~ . , Released under the ATIA

 

 

Timelines and communications

* The consultation period will be open for approximately three months to ensure meaningful
engagement from participants.

8 Input will Delp tr frame options to address corporate wrongdoing.

ae scoamt | eee ce mea STIS EAE Pe

Pee

oe : “Dates - . a oT _ So He tivities Bo = - = —
Now to Septomber2 2017 CTs ge a

 

 

    

he,

mendes toe eel LD oat eee ee

“September 18 to December 10, 2017 Seek vi views 1s during ¢ a : 60 0 day o1 on- n-line consultation
period (ending on November 10, 2017)

Conduct meétings until December 10, 2017 as
required ,

° A series of communications tools (i.e., emails to stakeholders, social media, -news release,
cross promotion between departments and agencies, etc.) will be used to announce the
launch of the consultation, maintain momentum and thank participants f for their input.

Ua flachentay eat Le deme steve ou qeatineet che

DT SE ATR SE a I ne a CEES SONS SE SE on Seo ee ee eases ee oto

le
i te i Government Gouvernement a

of Canada du Canada . : Canada

000055

 
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI
" Released under the ATIA
“ s.69(1)

“UII ce

 

Next steps

Today

* Seek approval of the consultation’s umbrella piece — Expanding Canada’s toolkit
to address corporate wrongdoing — and the respective discussion guides

- Endorse communications strategy for the launch of public consultations

Coming months
_* Launch and report back on the results of the integrity Regime and DPA

 

 

 

consu Itations
e
e
_ . , 10
, . a . 20 Ev REE age og ae ornate een REM ISG RS op pa
. a
(LTT AS EE on. Se Taz. Sot RR SCE a RA et re
ea i Government Gouvernement . , . C a
| of Canada du Canada . . abla

000056

 
 

Divulgué en vertu dela LAl
Released undgeg the ATIA

 

 

 

 

 

Key messages

* Corporate wrongdoing undermines fair competition, threatens the integrity of markets,
constitutes barriers to economic growth, increases cost and risk of doing business,
and undermines public and investor confidence.

* The Government of Canada is committed to taking action against improper and
' unethical business practices and holding companies accountable for such conduct. -

* Canada has a strong set of measures to deter companies from participating in
‘corporate misconduct, including legislative and non-legislative initiatives.

* To ensure that the necessary tools are in place to combat corporate wrongdoing
within an evolving marketplace, it is seeking stakeholder views on enhancements to
the Integrity Regime and on the possible adoption of a Canadian Deferred
Prosecution Agreement regime.

it

, 4
BM Severngent— Gowverneman a Canada.
. . : ; . . \

000057
 

Divulgué en vertu de la LAL
Released under. the ATIA

 

 

 

 

Copy 34 . SECRET °

Table of Contents

 

 

 

 

Setting the cOMteRt besenees syeeees sCsasShaluesnsneeseueegeeeeel veces cevsuerevereeeans veceesaeeseeees prttieesesseegenseeseesen
What Tole do governments play i in protecting the integrity of public. procurement? sesssetsatssesasaesvenseareuees 3
What are other jurisdictions doing? bees secsessssstssnssesessete beveesceeees veeteveseeees ecsueueee venti beaetaaseeaeeesaseneceeneees 3
Casé study: United States of America (US)... veseededaelieeaeebecaeseesleanenesteansasdesesdesseqenteaneeenes Lenten 4
' Case study: United Kingdom (UK) seeseeseeseseesessens neaeuaeceneeseescenaecaaecassactcaesasaes eseeeslesensens Veeeteateneateeneces saa
. Case study: Quebec... seeeneneeaesenesensassesseneneeasteees alaeepeseeeensaneensnaees phate tesnereraneees faseesnaeeneaense 4
Case Study? New Brunswick ....0...c.sserdeseseee: vevsuaneeeees seeveeenes gnaeeeeccusuuensueugauasaeecensuaeereees vesevensens heveunes 5
Case study: The World Banik ..:......ccccsscccsssecsssecsscessscensacacecseuevscescoseeesscavssseuanensuaasatscusasesausesensesacensesens 5
What is the Government of Canada GOING? ....cesscessssseeessenseseassescseesnesessscseseeusssesssssensatssanseaceutacstatanseesens 5
Integrity Regime seeeenereaeaeenansnsssseeanaeseseneeneensasaeneasnenenenenenenenaenenenenenenensneneaeats a seaeanescecerteceuceeusceasensneeas 6
. Principles guiding Canada’s government-wide Integrity REQHME..........cccccecescecesssnesssseesensecesesreeeeesenees 7
What we have heard to date ......csccssescsses neceesatseeseseeneneeeseass eseeeeenees vessesaeesceecassecaesessesaesateceaeanceeeneases wT
Possible enhancement .........cceccsesssessssssesesesssesesssssanereesscevavenseaces sesceeesesucusesvaueusesesusesesesensseenss “eesesenerees 8
1. Time periods associated with ineligibility and SUSPENSION. ............:ccsccccucecssecosnseceencesrecsueevenseas 8
2. Criteria for ineligibility And SUSPENSION. ...........:::cccssssesceessseseeesaseeessanseessstececseneeceesorteassensenateneeass 9
Provincial And! Civil OFFCNCOS ....ceccccccsscssesscccessnssesscusesecessaneecessnsessuansunsssnsnsssaeees se veaaceeeneeensaeeesensess 9
Additional offences associated with Corporate WrONQCOING ......ccccccceecccetesccsceeesessneeeecareseeaes ween @
Taking action prior to, or in the AbSENCE Of @ CONVICTION .......1.cceccccccccerseseestseeseteeeeseetecseeensnenees 10
Application to non-procurement Government Of Canada SrviC@S ........sccccssscceseseeessectesseesenene 10
Other jurisdictions’ debarment deciSIONS ...........0000 eae eeesansnssesanansansaesassssaueasnansasaeusasaeseeaesnenees 11
3. Addressing Organized Crime .........escsscecsesceceeeeteeseeeeeeteeeeeees seeeeseesseeeveesesesaeeusueececatineecsneeacs sol
4. — Expanding the scope of application .........sccscsssssssecssecessessesssesenseeseesees esueseesuessuesuesaessesnreseeees 12
- Application to Other Federal OrQanizatiOns........ccsccccsssecccccsscsscessseeesscsesssseeesssssessuseessseesessuees 12
Using the Integrity Regime to achieve other PUrPOSES .......c:cceseseseececeeseietssceeeaeettenteesnneneess 12
SuMmMary Of QUESTIONS ...... eee ce ccceeceeennceesereeeenensenesteeescseeseeeeeseienseeneees setae elaneaceeeaeecucecaeeeaeeeeedeaceaeeuasennes 14
Contact details «00.0... vesenseloneseneneeeres Lescessneeessneeeensneess secsaneennensareceseeensiss cesseeessneseasesaneeesseeetaneennees 15
Public Services and Procurement Canada’ : . page 2

000006
Divulgueé en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA

 

SECRET

 

Expanding Canada’s Toolkit to Address Corporate Wrongdoing .
Discussion paper for public consultation — Integrity Regime stream

Setting the context

The Government of Canada spends billions of dollars annually to buy goods and services on behalf of
Canadians and to support government operations. Given the sizeable financial flows of these
expenditures, contracts and real property transactions have the potential to leave the Government of
Canada vulnerable to fraud, collusion and corruption. This could include, but is not limited to, bid-
rigging, price fixing, bribery, undisclosed conflicts of interest, and fraudulent contract performance

- schemes. Public procurement is also vulnerable to organized crime, which negatively affects the daily

lives of Canadians.’

The direct costs of these types of wrongdoing in public procurement include loss of public funds
through misallocations or higher expenses, as well as lower quality of goods, services and works.”
This can result in less available financial resources to address other priorities and further erode trust
and confidence in public institutions. In a direct way, corruption in public procurement leads to
distortion of competition, limited market access, and reduced business appetite for foreign investors. °

Internationally, a number of cases within public contracting have highlighted these risks. This has
spurred renewed commitments from international bodies, such as the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), the World Bank, and the United Nations, to further combat

bribery and corruption.

Although it is difficult to measure the exact cost of corruption, it has been estimated that between 10-
30% of the investment in publicly funded construction projects internationally may be lost through
mismanagement and corruption.* The World Bank also estimates that businesses and individuals pay

an estimated $1.5 trillion in bribes each year.®
What role do governments play in protecting the integrity of public procurement?

All governments have an obligation to protect and safeguard the use and expenditure of public funds,
to ensure strong stewardship and transparency, and to uphold public trust. There are a number of
ways that this can be achieved in the context of public procurement, including, but not limited to,
debarment. Debarment is generally defined as the exclusion of an entity from receiving public

contracts.

What are other jurisdictions doing?

A number of jurisdictions have what is commonly referred to as a debarment regime. Although the
parameters of each regime differ (i.e., reasons for debarment, application of the regime, debarment

 

4. Criminal Intelligence Service Canada. Organized Crime in Canada -- Backgrounder http://www.cisc.gc.ca/media/2014/2014-08-22-eng.htm
2 OECD. Preventing Corruption in Public Procurement http://www.oeed.ore/eov/ethics/Corruption-in-Public-Procurement-Brochure, df
3 OECD. Preventing Corruption in Public Procurement http://www.oecd.ore/eov/ethics/Corruption-in-Public-Procurement-Brochure.pdf

* Construction Sector Transparency Initiative. Press Release http://www.constructiontranspa rency.org/documentdownload.axd?documentresourceid=8
5 The World Bank. Combating Corruption. http://www.worldbank.ore/en/topic/governance/brief/a nti-corruption

 

WEE ai

page 3
000007

PALES EEE ROE

Public Services and Procurement Canada
Divulgueé en vertu de la LAI
Released under the ATIA .

SECRET" i

 

 

oy ALERT Sree. . eee ee oe

periods, compliance requirements, administration, etc.), each has a common goal of ensuring that
contracts using public funds are not awarded to unethical suppliers, with varying levels of discretion.

Case study: United States of America (US)

In the US, regulations dictate circumstances in which a supplier may be debarred from receiving
federal funds. The US model balances mandatory and discretionary provisions. For-example, a
supplier will be debarred if it is convicted under, or is in violation.of a statute (e.g., violations of federal
or state controlled substance laws; certain violations of the Buy America Act, Clean Air Act, Clean
Water Act, etc.). Alternatively, a supplier-may be debarred if it commits a serious violation of thé terms
of a government contract or certain statutes, or if there is significant evidence (typically an indictment)
or any other cause s0 serious or compelling to justify debarment. A supplier may also be suspended
from award on the basis of evidence, an investigation or charges.

Periods of debarment, where mandatory, are spelled out in relevant legislation. For discretionary
debarment, a supplier may be excluded for three years and this can be extended. Each agency
applies required federal regulations to its own contracting and renders their own debarment decisions,
which are reported centrally. There are no monetary thresholds associated with the application of the
regime. It applies to all federal funds (e.g., contracts, grants and contributions, etc.).

Case study: United Kingdom (UK)

' The UK’s debarment regime is enshrined in the European Union Directives and the UK Public
Contracts Regulations and applies to public sector contracting authorities in the purchase of goods, .
supplies, and services, as well as lease to purchase agreements with varying monetary thresholds.

A supplier is debarred based on a conviction of a listed offence (i.e. conspiracy, corruption, fraudulent
trading, money laundering, etc.) or if it is in breach of its tax and social security obligations. These
mandatory debarments last five years from the date of exclusion. A discretionary debarment may take
place in instances such as non-compliance with specified laws, bankruptcy, grave professional
misconduct, anti-competitive behaviour, conflict of interest, poor performance, etc. A discretionary
debarment lasts three years. Self-cleaning measures may be considered to avoid exclusion from
public procurement (i.e., paying or undertaking to pay compensation in respect to damages; clarifying
facts and circumstances by collaborating with investigating authorities; taking measures to prevent
further criminal offences or misconduct, etc.).

Similar to Canada, the UK government may enter into a contract with a debarred supplier if it is in the
public interest to do so (i.¢e., public health or protection of the environment).

Case study: Quebec

Quebec has implemented a legislation-based certification to bid regime whereby suppliers and
subcontractors apply for approval through Autorité des marches financiers (AMF) which works with
L’Unité permanente anticorruption (UPAC). Suppliers and subcontractors competing in a call for
tenders or an award process equal to or greater than these threshold must apply for approval. The
AMF verifies applicants against a number of federal, provincial and other offences legislated in An Act

 

 

Cig RER GRRL RPT REAR ITE YEE ATR ORT AOE REE EE, PES PERT UT LT TOIT EET BETTE IE ES ET OS ee EN A Tatianna SE DROIT REINER Vth

Public Services and Procurement Canada page 4
‘ 000008
Divulgué en vertu de la LAI

Released under the ATIA

 

 

yo - | SECRET

Respecting Contracting of Public Bodies that will or may render applicants ineligible for public
contracts in consultation with UPAC.

Quebec’s debarment regime currently applies to construction and public private partnership contracts
over $5 million and service contracts over $1 million.

Suppliers convicted of specific offences under both federal and provincial legislation are debarred for
up to five years. The Authority also has wide discretion to refuse to grant or to renew an authorization
or may revoke an authorization if a supplier fails to meet the high standards of integrity that the public
is entitled to expect from a party to a public contract or subcontract. The Registre des entreprises non
admissibles aux contrats publics must be consulted for public contracts to ensure that bidders are not
debarred. Suppliers established outside of Quebec are required to provide a “good conduct
certificate”, sworn letter, criminal/penal court record or an equivalent document when bidding. °

Case study: New Brunswick

New Brunswick has implemented a legislation-based debarment regime under its Procurement Act '
and General Regulation. A supplier is disqualified from provincial procurement if convicted of a
number of offences under six federal statutes (i-e., Criminal Code, Corruption of Foreign Public
Officials Act, Controlled Drugs and Substances Act, etc.). Periods of debarment last for a maximum of
five years, proportional to the offence. In the case of three offences (sections 463-465 of the Criminal .
Code) the disqualification period could be more than five years, based on the set term of the sentence.

The New Brunswick regime allows for some discretion. A supplier may be disqualified for documented
significant or persistent deficiencies in fulfilling or performing a substantive requirement or obligation

under a prior contract or contracts.

Case study: The World Bank.

When firms or individuals participating in World Bank Group-financed projects are found, through
investigation, to have engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, collusive or obstructive practices on a World
Bank project, the World Bank may impose a debarment. Debarred entities are then ineligible to be
awarded a contract, either permanently or for a designated period of time. Decisions on how long a
firm or individual is debarred are made through a two-tier adjudicative process based on the severity
of the misconduct, the harm caused by the misconduct, and the past history of adjudicated
misconduct. There can also be mitigating factors that influence decisions, such as a minor role in the
misconduct, voluntary corrective action taken, and cooperation.

The World Bank places an emphasis on 1 debarred parties meeting certain integrity compliance
conditions before they can once again participate in World Bank Group-financed projects. These
conditions encourage debarred parties to focus on rehabilitating their business practices.

}

What is the Government of Canada doing?

The Government of Canada is committed to being accountable to Canadians; protecting the
. stewardship of public funds; embodying and observing high ethical standards; and reflecting public

AREER SNES NEE TPMT REDS TSN PTR Ta le BEN AP PR er en IC cr

Public Services and Procurement Canada . ane &
000009
